Project Gutenberg's Flint Hills Cook Book, by Women of Christ Church Parish

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Flint Hills Cook Book

Author: Women of Christ Church Parish

Release Date: February 23, 2019 [EBook #58948]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FLINT HILLS COOK BOOK ***




Produced by Mardi Desjardins & the online Distributed
Proofreaders Canada team at https://www.pgdpcanada.net
from page images generously made available by Iowa State
University Library Digital Collections





                             M. C. CONNER,
                     Jeweler and Diamond Merchant,
                           BURLINGTON, IOWA.

When you buy JEWELRY, SILVERWARE, DIAMONDS, or other PRECIOUS STONES,
you want something upon which you can rely, with a name and reputation
behind it. By purchasing of M. C. CONNER, the leading dealer in
high-grade and fashionable Jewelry, you will get not only Full Value,
but articles of the Finest Quality, in Beautiful and Artistic Designs,
many patterns being made expressly for his trade, and not to be found
elsewhere.

                 *        *        *        *        *

[Illustration: drawing of a cut glass decanter.]

                             Don’t Forget

That you cannot get every thing you want out of the Cook Book, you must
go to

                           E. H. Carpenter’s

for Hawk’s Cut Glass, the finest in the World.

He also has a fine line of Sterling Silver Tableware in the newest
patterns.

Ivory and Pearl Handle Knives, Carving Sets, Etc.

                            CHAFEING DISHES.

                 *        *        *        *        *


                              FLINT HILLS

                               COOK BOOK,

                           Compiled by Women


                    [Illustration: drawing of an old
             brick building with a bell tower topped with a
                             peaked roof.]

                                 ——OF——

                         Christ Church Parish,

                           BURLINGTON, IOWA.


                                  1895

                 *        *        *        *        *


                              CONRAD LUTZ,

                           PRINTING, BINDING

                     [Illustration: publisher logo]

                           BURLINGTON, IOWA.

                 *        *        *        *        *




                                PREFACE.


There is a custom, hoary with the accumulated dust of ages, originating
many a long century ago, in a certain, but now extinct “garden,” of
which we all know more or less, viz: That man will and must eat.

Out of the helplessness of man there has grown another custom, equally
old, (some say even older) that women shall set before him that which
shall satisfy man’s hunger.

From that day to this women have vied with one another for pre-eminence
in culinary art. Now any man will tell you that in this art, there has
been vouchsafed to some a greater measure of perfection than to others.
With this thought in mind, it has been the effort of the compilers to
gather together and set forth in the pages of this book the proudest
achievements of the best cooks to be found among the women of Christ
Church Parish and others of the city of Burlington, Iowa.

This being such a laudable object, it seems to the writer, that no
apology for this book can be necessary. It is, therefore, put forth with
the utmost confidence that it will receive a hearty welcome.

Like all things done in haste, it will no doubt, show defects to the
critical eye; but such as it is, we cast it like “bread” “upon the
waters,” trusting that it may return in another form, ere many days are
past.

BURLINGTON, IOWA.




                           INDEX TO RECIPES.


                                               PAGE.

                    Breads                         7

                    Soups                         15

                    Fish and Oysters              21

                    Eggs                          25

                    Meats and Entrees             27

                    Vegetables                    37

                    Salads                        43

                    Pickles and Relishes          47

                    Pastry and Puddings           52

                    Ices                          69

                    Cake and Cookies              71

                    Jellies and Jams              81

                    Beverages                     85

                    Confectionery                 86

                    Miscellaneous                 93




                        INDEX TO ADVERTISEMENTS.


                                                      PAGE.

             M. C. Conner                Inside Front Cover

             E. H. Carpenter                ”     ”     ”

             Hotel Delano                                 6

             Hawkeye Laundry Co.                          6

             Biklen, Winzer Grocer Co.                    6

             Churchill Drug Co.                          14

             O. M. Burrus                                14

             Grand Union Tea Co.                         14

             Paul H. Phillips                            14

             D. D. Robinson                              20

             Stewart & Hayden                            20

             Harrington & Salter                         20

             George W. Turner                            20

             Kaut & Kriechbaum                           24

             Kriechbaum & Dewein                         24

             Mrs. G. Moard                               24

             John Renner                                 26

             Mauro & Wilson                              36

             Henry’s Drug Store                          36

             Burlington Electric                         41
               Lighting Co.

             Frank Kupper (estate)                       41

             R. M. Raab & Bro.                           42

             Burlington Tent and                         42
               Awning Factory

             Theo. W. Niemann                            42

             I. Prugh & Sons                             42

             Xano Manufacturing Co.                      42

             Boeck’s Leaf Lard                           42

             Burlington Gas Light Co.                    51

             Sterling & Son                              51

             Wyman & Rand                                51

             Rankin & Dodge                              51

             H. A. Brown & Co.                           51

             Schier Tailoring Co.                        68

             John Boesch                                 68

             J. J. Curran & Co.                          68

             Gnahn’s Bookstore                           68

             Drake Hardware Co.                          70

             H. Ranke                                    80

             Burlington Hawk-Eye                         80

             Jas. W. Smither                             80

             Wm. Ihrer & Son                             83

             P. F. Unterkircher & Son                    83

             E. S. Phelps                                84

             W. J. Donahue                               84

             M A. Frawley                                84

             M. H. Davis                                 84

             Robinson Drug Co.                           92

             H. Zaiser & Son                             92

             S. & S. Bakery                              92

             Joseph Bock                                 95

             Jas. Bentz & Sons                           95

             The Journal Co.                             95

             S. R. & I. C. McConnell                     95

             J. S. Schramm                Inside Back Cover

                 *        *        *        *        *

                             Hotel Delano,
                           BURLINGTON, IOWA.

                         _THOROUGHLY RENOVATED_
                    _FREE BUS._        _STEAM HEAT._

                       O. W. DELANO, Proprietor.

                 *        *        *        *        *

                        THE HAWKEYE LAUNDRY CO.,
                         407 NORTH MAIN STREET.

                  WORK CARED FOR AND DELIVERED IN ANY
                           PART OF THE CITY.

                        C. M. MATHEWS, Manager.

                 *        *        *        *        *

                     YOU MAKE NO MISTAKE IN BUYING
                        Uncle Sam Baking Powder,

                 IT IS HEALTHY. ECONOMICAL. NUTRITIOUS.

                       BIKLEN, WINZER GROCER CO.

                 *        *        *        *        *




                                BREADS.


                              Sally Lunn.

1 scant cup of sugar, 3 cups of flour, 1 cup of milk, 2 eggs, 1
tablespoonful of butter, 2 heaping teaspoonsful of baking powder, mixed
with the flour. Mix eggs, sugar and butter, then add with flour, stir
quickly, put in shallow biscuit tins and bake 20 or 30 minutes.

                                                    Mrs. C. P. Squires.


                             Cheese Straws.

1 quart of flour, 1 pint cheese (grated), ½ teaspoonful of salt, 4
tablespoonfuls of lard, use water to make it just stiff enough to roll
on the board, ¼ inch in thickness, cut in narrow—not too long—strips,
and bake a light brown in a quick oven.

                                                      Mrs. E. L. Stone.


                              Coffee Cake.

1 coffee cup of butter, 1 coffee cup (heaping) of white sugar, 1 quart
of milk (boiled), 1½ pints potato sponge, 4 eggs, flour enough to knead
it well, let it get very light, then roll it out one-half inch in
thickness and let it rise again; then just before putting into the oven
spread butter or thick cream over it and sprinkle thickly with powdered
sugar and ground cinnamon, well mixed.

                                                      Mrs. E. L. Stone.


                            Indian Bannock.

Scald 1 pint corn meal very carefully, 1 quart of milk, 4 eggs, a little
sugar and salt. Bake.

                                                               S. S. G.


                           Corn Meal Muffins.

4 tablespoons corn meal well scalded. Add 1 cup of flour, 1 tablespoon
of butter (put into the meal while hot), 1 egg, 1 cup of milk, a little
salt. Bake in muffin cups.

                                                               S. S. G.


                           Corn Meal Muffins.

2 eggs, 1 tablespoon of butter, 1 tablespoon of sugar, nearly 1 glassful
of milk, 1 glassful of flour, ½ glassful corn meal, 1 heaping teaspoon
baking powder. Bake in quick oven.

                                                               M. G. M.


                                Muffins.

½ pint sweet milk, 3 eggs, butter size of an egg, tablespoonful of
sugar, ½ teaspoonful of salt, 3 teaspoons of baking powder. Flour to
thicken.

                                                    Mrs. H. W. Perkins.


                                Muffins.

Put a pinch of salt and a teaspoon of sugar in a bowl, separate 1 egg
and mix the yolk with this, stir well; then add 1 pint of milk, butter
the size of a walnut, melted, 1 teaspoonful of baking powder in flour
enough to make a batter as for “pan cakes,” last add the beaten white of
egg. Bake in muffin tins that have been warmed. Bake in a hot oven.

                                                            Bertha B——.


                  Rice and Corn Meal Cakes or Muffins.

At night boil two cups of rice, add a lump of butter the size of an egg,
and stir in 1 pint of milk. In the morning beat four eggs separately and
stir into the rice, and beat well together. Add 2 cups or more of corn
meal, mix well and bake; have the batter not too thick. This batter can
be used for thin cakes cooked slowly on a griddle, or baked in gem pans
and served as muffins.

                                                               S. S. G.


                             Plain Waffles.

1 pint of flour, 1 pint of sweet milk, 1 egg, 1 teaspoonful of baking
powder, 1 tablespoonful of butter. Mix into a smooth batter, and bake in
hot waffle iron. Serve hot with butter and sugar, or syrup.

                                                           A. N. Duffy.


                                Waffles.

3 eggs, beat yoke and white separate, mix sweet milk with yolks of eggs,
stir flour in gradually, tablespoon warm butter, 2 level teaspoons of
baking powder, a pinch of sugar and salt, then ready to bake put in
whites of eggs. Have waffle iron very hot.

                                                        Mr. John Gregg.


                             Graham Bread.

1 pint bread sponge, 1 cup molasses, 1 quart Graham flour. Put a
teaspoon of soda and one of salt, also a teaspoonful of lard in a cup
and fill it up with hot water—mix all with the sponge and let it stand
two hours—then make into two loaves put in pans and let it stand one
hour, then bake.

                                                      Mrs. E. L. Stone.


                            Graham Tea Cake.

1 egg, ½ cup of sugar, 1 cup Graham flour, 1 cup white flour, 1 cup
milk, 2 heaping teaspoonsful of baking powder. Mix as you would a cake.
Bake in cake tins in a quick oven, and serve hot.

                                                               C. S. C.


                          Boston Brown Bread.

1 cup corn meal, 2 cups rye meal, 1 cup molasses, 1¾ cups buttermilk, 1
teaspoonful soda dissolved in a little boiling water, little salt. Steam
8 hours in a well buttered mould which should be but half full.

                                                       Mrs. H. T. Cook.


                          Boston Brown Bread.

1 cup molasses (New Orleans), 1 teaspoonful soda dissolved in molasses,
3 cups of corn meal, 2 cups rye meal, 1 egg, a little salt, 1 cup cold
water or milk. Bake or steam three hours, (steaming preferred).

                                                               S. S. G.


                             Hominy Balls.

2½ cups of fine hominy to 3 quarts of water, boil one hour, or until
thoroughly cooked, then take 5 cups of boiled hominy, 1 cup milk, 3
eggs, 4 tablespoonsful of sugar, 1 pint of flour, 1 pint cracker crumbs.
Mix all together putting in only a part of the rolled crumbs, reserving
the remainder to roll the balls in. Fry like doughnuts.

                                                               S. S. G.


                              Corn Bread.

1 pint corn meal, 1½ pint sweet milk, 3 eggs, salt, a little baking
powder.

                                                            Miss Rhein.


                            Rice Corn Bread.

¾ tea cup of boiled rice, 3 eggs, the yolks beaten light and added to
rice while warm, stirring all the time to keep eggs from cooking, add a
pint or little more of sour milk, 1 teaspoonful salt, meal enough to
make a thin batter, add the well beaten whites, a lump of butter size of
an egg, a small teaspoonful soda dissolved in warm water. Bake in a deep
pan in a very hot oven.

                                                               K. T. R.


                              Jolly Boys.

Scald 2 cups of corn meal, when cool add 1 egg well beaten, 1 cup flour,
1 tablespoonful sugar, 1½ teaspoonful soda, a little salt. Bake in small
cakes on griddle, split when hot and butter.

                                                               K. T. R.


                            Rice Corn Bread.

1 quart buttermilk, ¾ cup rice, 1 cup white corn meal, 3 eggs, 1
teaspoonful soda, cook the rice till tender and dry, pour over it 1 pint
buttermilk, let stand till cool, then add the rest of the buttermilk.
The eggs beaten repeatedly, a pinch of salt, the corn meal, and lastly
the soda dissolved in a little water. Pour into a hot buttered cathem
dish and bake one hour in a hot oven.

                                                    Mrs. H. C. Schramm.


                              Corn Bread.

Take 4 ounces yellow corn meal, 6 ounces pure flour, 4 ounces sugar and
mix well together, add 3 whole well beaten eggs, 1 ounce baking powder,
a pinch of salt, mix with cold milk into light dough, roll out quickly,
and bake in quick oven about fifteen or 20 minutes.

                                                       Mrs. John Gregg.


                              Corn Cakes.

Soak 1½ cup corn meal in milk, add one cup flour, 2 teaspoonsful baking
powder, ½ teaspoonful salt, 2 eggs beaten separately and cream or rich
milk enough to make thin. Fry on soapstone or iron griddle.

                                                               S. M. W.


                                 Bread.

To make four small loaves—Take three tablespoonsful of flour and scald
with two teacups of sour or butter milk, curd and whey, add a pinch of
sugar and salt, when cool add one cake of yeast. Let it stand in a warm
place four or five hours, or over night. From this set a sponge, which
should be light in two hours. In your bread pan dissolve half a tea cup
of sugar, two tablespoonsful of lard, one tablespoonful of salt, a pinch
of soda, with one quart of hot water; when cool add sponge and mix well.
Sift and add flour as for cake and knead until smooth, not too stiff;
rub a little lard over the top and set it in a warm place until light,
make into loaves and bake one hour. The secret is to keep it in a warm
place from the start. It has never been known to fail.

                                                          N. Priestman.


                      Corn Dodgers or Pone Bread.

1 quart of corn meal, sifted, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 tablespoonful of
lard, thoroughly worked into the meal. Enough scalding water to make a
stiff batter, so it can be moulded into pans, in the hands. Bake half an
hour in a quick oven.

                                                       E. J. Robertson.


             Old Fashioned Plain Corn Bread or “Hoe Cake.”

1 quart sifted corn meal (white), one teaspoonful of salt. Enough butter
milk to make a thick batter. Dissolve in a cup of butter milk just
enough soda to sweeten the milk, and no more. Beat thoroughly and bake
on a griddle in cakes about ¼ inch thick. When brown place in a hot oven
and when dry and crisp serve at once very hot.

                                                       E. J. Robertson.


                            Beaten Biscuit.

1 quart flour, sifted, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 tablespoonful of cold
lard. Work the lard thoroughly into the flour, then add, a little at a
time, half sweet milk and half water, until you have a stiff dough.
Place on board and work through a biscuit machine, or beat twenty
minutes, until smooth and light, and the dough blisters. Roll out quite
thin, cut into shape and prick the top with a fork. Bake in a quick oven
twenty minutes.

                                                       E. J. Robertson.


                              Graham Gems.

2 eggs well beaten, a large spoonful of dark molasses, a tablespoonful
of shortening, one cup of sweet milk, one small cup of wheat flour, and
two of Graham flour, two teaspoonsful of baking powder, one teaspoonful
of salt. Grease your gem pans, warm well, drop in your dough, bake in a
hot oven. This will make a dozen gems.

                                                     Mrs. L. L. Arnold.


                        Baking Powder Biscuits.

Sift one quart of flour, two rounding teaspoonsful of baking powder and
one teaspoonful of salt into a bowl, add three teaspoonsful of cottolene
and rub together until thoroughly mixed, then add sufficient milk to
make a soft dough, knead slightly, roll out about half an inch thick and
cut with a small biscuit cutter. Place a little apart in a greased pan
and bake quickly in hot oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. These
biscuits should be a delicate brown, top and bottom, light on the sides
and snowy white when broken open.

                                                     Mrs. L. L. Arnold.


                             Cheese Balls.

Whites of 2 eggs beaten, 1 cup of grated cheese, crackers enough to roll
into balls. Roll in crackers and fry in hot lard.

                                                     Frances H. Potter.


                             Cheese Sticks.

1½ cups of grated cheese, 1 cup of flour, 1 teaspoonful of baking
powder, 1 tablespoonful of salt. Mix with ice water and roll thin, and
cut in long thin sticks and place in the pan so they will not touch and
bake in quick oven.

                                                               L. R. B.


                              Corn Bread.

2 eggs, ¾ cup milk and water mixed, ½ cup of flour, ½ cup of corn meal,
1 medium spoon of lard, 1 teaspoon of sugar, salt, 2 level teaspoons of
baking powder.

                                                     Katherine Stevens.


                               Pop-Overs.

Required: 2 eggs, 2 cups of flour, 2 cups of milk. 1 teaspoonful of
salt, 1 tablespoonful of melted butter. Mix carefully as follows: Break
and beat the two eggs; add teaspoonful salt; add two cups sifted flour,
and little by little the two cups milk, rubbing smooth with spoon. The
butter should be placed to melt as the mixing begins and is ready to add
last, beating into the very soft batter. It should not have a lump in
it. Bake for fifteen or twenty minutes in a crisp oven. Allow them to
stand for a few moments after browning with the door ajar, and they will
not fall.

                                               Minette Slayback Carper.


                 *        *        *        *        *

                          CHURCHILL DRUG CO.,
                             IMPORTERS AND
                          Wholesale Druggists,

                           BURLINGTON, IOWA.

                 *        *        *        *        *

                        SEE O. M. BURRUS FOR
             Granite and Marble Monuments, and Head Stones,
                    STONE WORK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.

        Stone Steps and Coping, Stone Walks and Carriage Steps,
               the Best Building Stone, Cistern Tops, and
                     all styles of Hitching Posts.

                 *        *        *        *        *

                          GRAND UNION TEA CO.,
                        CARRY THE FINEST LINE OF
                         Tea, Coffee and Spices
                             _IN THE CITY_.

                   GIVE THEM A CALL, IT WILL PAY YOU.

                 *        *        *        *        *

                           PAUL H. PHILLIPS,
                          HOLIDAY NOVELTIES IN
             Neckwear, Handkerchiefs, Mufflers, Umbrellas,
                      WALKING STICKS, GLOVES, ETC.

                 *        *        *        *        *




                                 SOUPS.


Meat for soup should be boiled long and slowly. People usually hurry
soups too much, but in this case “haste certainly makes waste.” The
water should be cold when the meat is put in, and it should be
thoroughly skimmed as soon as it boils, kept closely covered and
carefully strained when done.


                           Mock Turtle Soup.

Put a knuckle of veal in the stock pot and boil for two hours, add a
pint and a half of black beans, boil five hours more, pepper and salt to
taste, remove from fire, strain and whip smooth. Have ready three
chopped hard boiled eggs, one-half of sliced lemon and a small glass of
wine. Pour in soup and serve.

                                                               K. T. R.


                              Celery Soup.

Cut up six stalks of celery into half inch pieces, put them in pot with
one onion, one black mace, salt and two small peppers, add a quart of
veal broth and boil one hour. Rub the ingredients through a sieve, put
the pulp into a sauce pan, add one quart more of stock, boil, then set
on one side of stove, add a pint of cream to the soup and serve with
toast.

                                                               K. T. R.


                     Rich Stock or Grand Bouillon.

4 pounds shin of beef, 4 pounds knuckles of veal, ½ pound lean ham, any
poultry trimmings in pantry, 2 onions, 3 carrots, 3 turnips, 1 head of
celery, 2 tomatoes or 4 tablespoons of canned, a bunch of herbs with
parsley, salt to taste, 3 lumps of sugar, 6 cloves, 2 small blades of
mace, 6 quarts of cold water. Simmer in stock pot for 8 hours, the first
4 on back of stove. Do not let boil quickly that the stock be not wasted
and preserve its color. Strain through a fine hair sieve or cloth and
set away until cold, then remove the fat that has formed on top and it
will be ready for use.

                                                               K. T. R.


                            Split Pea Soup.

A quart of peas, about two quarts of water and an onion, boiled together
until soft. Put through a colander, add a little salt and cayenne
pepper. Fry bread in butter, cut it in small pieces and lay in the
tureen. Pour soup on. If too thick add water. When ready to serve put in
a cup of cream or lump of butter. Of course it is better made with
stocks instead of water.

                                                               K. T. R.


                              Tomato Soup.

One quart of tomatoes, one quart of water, one quart of sweet milk. Boil
water and tomatoes together for twenty minutes. Put in large tablespoon
of butter, same of flour rubbed well together, a little nutmeg, salt and
pepper to taste. Then add a dessert spoonful of soda; as soon as it has
foamed up put in the milk and some rolled cracker, let it boil up and
serve at once.

                                                                Mrs. A.


                              Tomato Soup.

To enough beef stock for six persons, take a can of tomatoes. Fry a
medium sized onion in butter, add this to the tomatoes. Stew until soft.
Then strain and add the stock. Boil a little and season with salt and
red pepper.

                                                 Mrs. Wallace Campbell.


                          Cream of Rice Soup.

2 quarts of chicken stock (the water in which fowl have been boiled will
answer), 1 teacup of rice, a small onion, 1 quart of cream or milk, a
stalk of celery, salt and pepper to taste. Wash rice, carefully add to
stock, onion and celery, cook very slowly 2 hours. Put through a sieve,
add seasoning and the milk or cream, which has been allowed to come to a
boil. If milk is used, add one tablespoonful of butter.

                                                               K. T. R.


                              Clear Stock.

Any parts of chicken left over, 1 pound can beef, ½ pound ham, 3 ounces
butter, 3 carrots, 2 quarts of plain beef stock, some herbs, pepper and
salt. Chop up the chicken and toss them with onion, cut in slices with
the butter in the sauce pan, let them get cold then add beef and
vegetables, herbs, and seasoning, let the whole simmer for three hours,
strain and let get cold, remove fat, and it will be ready for use.

                                                               K. T. R.


                       Veal Broth with Dumplings.

Put in stock pot two pounds of chopped knuckle of veal, and two quarts
of cold water, let it come to a boil slowly, then set on back of range,
add a stalk of celery, a small pepper, one onion quartered, heaping
teaspoonful of salt, simmer four hours, strain and remove all fat, have
ready some small dumplings, add them to broth, return to fire and boil
fifteen minutes. The dumplings are made as follows: ½ pound sifted
flour, add scant teaspoonful salt, a teaspoonful baking powder and ½
pint of milk. Work into dough and make into little balls.

                                                               K. T. R.


                              Barley Soup.

2 pounds shin of beef, ¼ pound Pearl barley, a bunch of parsley, 4
onions, 6 potatoes, salt and pepper to taste, 4 quarts cold water, cut
meat and vegetables in slices, put in all the ingredients and simmer
gently for four hours, strain and serve.

                                                               K. T. R.


                               Bouillon.

Put 4 pounds of chopped meat and 2 pounds of bone in stock pot, add 2
quarts of cold water, heat slowly, add one tablespoonful salt, four
cloves, tablespoonful mixed herbs, simmer five hours, boil down to three
pints, strain, let get cold and remove fat. Heat when needed and serve
with small squares of toast.

                                                               K. T. R.


                            Cream of Celery.

1 pint of milk, 1 tablespoonful of flour, 1 tablespoonful of butter, 1
slice of onion, 1 pint of water, 1 cup whipped cream, 6 heads of celery,
salt and pepper. Boil celery in water for one half hour, boil milk and
onion together, thicken with flour and butter rubbed to a cream, mash
the celery in the water in which it was cooked and stir into the milk,
season to taste, add whipped cream after the soup is in tureen.

                                                               K. T. R.


                               Corn Soup.

1 quart stock, veal or mutton, 1 quart rich milk or cream, 1 can of best
corn, cream, 1 tablespoonful flour with 1 tablespoonful butter, add milk
and cream, boil until it thickens. Boil the corn with the stock for ten
minutes, strain, and add to milk and cream. Salt and cayenne pepper to
taste.

                                                               M. A. S.


                              White Soup.

Boil a knuckle of veal or two chickens until the skin breaks, skim, add
a cup of vermicelli, which has been boiled in other water until tender.
Just before serving add one pint of cream, a little mace, yolks of four
eggs beaten light. The soup should be boiling when these are added, and
stand long enough to boil up again or else it will curdle.

                                                               E. G. R.


                               Corn Soup.

Corn soup, very good, made with either fresh or canned corn; when it is
fresh, cut the corn from the cob, and scrape off well all that sweetest
part of the corn which remains on the cob. To a pint of corn add a quart
of hot water. Boil it for an hour or longer, then press it through the
colander. Put into the sauce pan butter the size of an egg, and when it
bubbles sprinkle in a heaping tablespoonful of sifted flour, which cook
a minute, stirring it well. Now add half of the corn pulp, add cayenne
pepper, salt, a scant pint of boiling milk and a cup of cream.

                                                               E. G. R.


                            Lobster Chowder.

1 lobster, chopped not very fine, 2 Boston crackers pounded fine and
mixed with the green fat of lobster. Put in this a piece of butter the
size of an egg, a little salt and cayenne pepper, work well together,
boil 1 quart of milk and pour gradually over, stirring all the time,
boil five minutes.

                                                               S. S. G.


                               Beef Soup.

Beef Soup is very much improved by boiling a small piece of beef liver
in it.

                                                    Mrs. H. C. Garrett.


                             Oyster Bisque.

Take 3 cups of oysters or clam juice, a very little finely chopped
celery, salt and pepper to taste. Let boil a few minutes, then thicken
with a teaspoonful of flour mixed in a little cold water. Before serving
have the beaten yelks of 2 eggs whipped into a cup of cream, add this to
the juice and keep stirring for full two minutes. Then stir into cups
and serve immediately.

                                                    Mrs. W. J. Pollock.


                             Puree of Lamb.

Use stock from boiled lamb. Put in a stew pan 1 tablespoonful butter,
thicken with ½ tablespoonful flour, thin with ½ cup sweet milk, 2 cups
lamb stock, add ½ can French peas, little parsley chopped very fine,
season. Enough for four people.

                                                       Mrs. John Gregg.


                 *        *        *        *        *

                            D. D. ROBINSON,
                               DRUGGIST,
          LARGEST ASSORTMENT OF Fine Perfumes IN THE CITY.

           DOES NOT WANT THE EARTH FOR A SMALL BOX OF PILLS.

             Opposite Postoffice.         BURLINGTON, IOWA.

                 *        *        *        *        *

                                  FOR
                    Fine Plumbing and Water Heating,
                    IN ALL ITS VARIOUS BRANCHES SEE
                           STEWART & HAYDEN,
                           310 North Main St.

                 *        *        *        *        *

                          HARRINGTON & SALTER,
                                HATTERS.

                 *        *        *        *        *

                  Try PLATT’S TIGER BRAND OF OYSTERS.

           None Better, ask your Grocer, they all keep them.

                           GEORGE W. TURNER.

                 *        *        *        *        *




                           FISH AND OYSTERS.


                            Fish a la Creme.

2 pounds of cusk, halibut, cod or white fish, boiled and shredded with a
fork; put in a dish with bits of butter, pepper and salt to taste. Boil
1 pint of milk, ¼ pound butter, and 2 tablespoonsful flour to thicken, a
small onion when thick, take out onion, and spread the mixture on the
layers of fish. Cover top with fine bread crumbs, squeeze out the juice
of 1 lemon, and brown in oven.

                                                               S. S. G.


                      Fish Stuffed with Crackers.

6 crackers, 1 quart milk, 4 eggs, ¼ teaspoonful pepper, ⅛ teaspoonful
nutmeg, ½ teaspoonful sugar, 1 large fish boned and skinned, about 3
tablespoonsful butter, soak crackers in milk until soft, add eggs
slightly beaten, ½ teaspoonful of salt, pepper, nutmeg and sugar, and
stir. Put 1 tablespoonful of the butter onto a tin sheet placed in a
dripping pan, place ½ of the fish on the sheet and cover with the
crackers and custard, add remaining half of fish, pour over all the
remaining crackers and custard and daub with second tablespoonful of
butter, and bake about forty minutes, as the custard coagulates baste
the fish with it and so continue until all the custard and cracker is on
the fish. When a golden brown baste with a third spoonful of butter.
Serve with Hollandaise Sauce.

                                                       M. W. McFarland.


                              Fried Fish.

Take salmon steaks, wash well, beat yolk and dip fish into it, sprinkle
with pepper and salt, have a deep iron pan with basket, have pan half
full of boiling lard, put fish in basket, put in lard till nicely brown
all over.

SAUCE.—Have green parsley picked very fine, put in pan ½ tablespoonful
of butter, brown well, half tablespoonful of vinegar, add parsley, serve
with fish.

                                                       Mrs. John Gregg.


                         Simple Sauce for Fish.

½ cup of butter, yolks of 2 eggs, ¼ of a lemon, rub the butter to a
cream, add the beaten yolks, a saltspoonful of salt, pepper to taste,
and just before serving a half cup of boiling water.

                                                    Mrs. C. E. Schramm.


                              Salmon Loaf.

1 quart can of Salmon, ½ cup rolled cracker, 1 tablespoonful of butter,
3 well beaten eggs, salt and pepper to taste, steam one hour, serve with
rich drawn butter gravy, with a can of mushrooms cooked in gravy.

                                                     Frances H. Potter.


                              Fish Turbot.

Boil white fish, picked fine (red snapper or other fish will do). For
gravy take 1 quart of milk for 3 pounds of fish, add a little onion, 3
bay leaves and a pinch of thyme. Let simmer for an hour, then strain,
thicken with 2 or 3 teaspoonsful of flour and add 1 cup of melted
butter. Season with pepper and salt. Put in alternate layers of fish and
gravy, sprinkle with bread crumbs and bake. Serve with sauce tartare.

                                                    Mrs. C. E. Schramm.


                                Turbot.

Clean white fish weighing 1½ pounds, place in pan, cover with water and
cook in oven till two-thirds done. Flake the fish from the bones.

DRESSING.—1 pint milk, 1 egg, small spoonful butter, small spoonful
flour, a pinch of white pepper. Steam in double boiler, butter some
shells and put layers of fish and dressing till full and cracker crumbs
on top. Bake 15 or 20 minutes. Can be baked in dish same as oysters.

                                                     Katherine Stevens.


                                Turbot.

Take a white fish, steam till done, take out the bones and sprinkle with
salt and pepper.

SAUCE.—Take 1 quart of milk, ¼ pound of flour, 1 bunch of parsley and
summer savory, 3 slices of onion, put this over the fire and stir until
it creams. Adding 2 eggs, ½ pound butter, then put through a sieve. Put
into a baking-dish, first a layer of fish and then one of sauce, and so
on, up to the top, spread with crumbs and bake half an hour.

                                                           E. G. Roads.


                           Cream of Oysters.

2 pints of oysters, 1 pint milk, 1 pint cream, 3 tablespoonsful corn
starch, butter and salt to taste, serve on toast. Let cream come to a
boil, mix corn starch with cold milk, and stir into boiling milk, cook
oysters in their own liquor and turn into the cream, season well with
salt, pepper and butter.

                                                    Mrs. C. P. Squires.


                          Escalloped Oysters.

1 can oysters, 1 pint sifted bread crumbs, 6 tablespoonsful melted
butter, salt and pepper. Pour oysters into sieve with 1 cup cold water
and let them drain, pick off all pieces of shell. Roll and sift dry
bread for crumbs. Into greased baking dish put layer of oysters, cover
with ⅓ of the bread crumbs, season with salt and pepper, and pour over ⅓
of the melted butter. In this way make three layers of oysters. Bake in
pretty hot oven from 20 to 30 minutes.

                                                                  M. W.


                       Croustades or Bread Boxes.

Cut a loaf of stale bread from which the crust has been removed into
pieces, 2½ inches thick, 2½ inches wide, and 3½ inches long, then with a
sharp pointed knife cut a line around the inside ½ inch from the edge
and carefully remove the crumbs, leaving a box with sides and bottom ½
inch in thickness. The boxes may be cut round if preferred, using two
sizes of biscuit cutters. They are fried in a kettle of smoking hot
lard, and should be crisp and dry and the color of amber. Serve heaping
full of creamed spinach, creamed fish, chicken or asparagus tips.

                                                      Mrs. W. D. Eaton.


                 *        *        *        *        *

                           KAUT & KRIECHBAUM.
                            HEADQUARTERS FOR
                       Grand Ideal Steel Ranges,
                    And Radiant House Base Burners.

                   FULL LINE OF MANUFACTURING GOODS.

                 *        *        *        *        *

                     See the GREAT GERMAN HEATER at
                         KRIECHBAUM & DEWEIN’S,
                          STOVES AND TINWARE.

                 *        *        *        *        *

                             MRS. G. MOARD.
                            FINE MILLINERY,
                          314 Jefferson Street

                 *        *        *        *        *




                                 EGGS.


                               Omelette.

3 eggs, 3 tablespoonsful of cream or 3 scant tablespoonsful of milk, 1
tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 1 even teaspoonful of butter, salt and
pepper. Beat yolks until they are thick and lemon colored. Beat whites
very stiff. Beat into the yolks the milk, parsley and seasoning. Fall
the whites into the yolks. Do not stir them in. Grease hot omelette pan
with the one teaspoon of butter, pour in the eggs, shake the pan to keep
them from burning. When omelette is light brown on the bottom, place in
oven until top is dry enough to show most of knife run through it.
Loosen from pan with knife. Fold over. Serve on warm platter.

                                                                  M. W.


                             Jam Omelette.

4 eggs, beat well, white and yolks separate, put together, add 4
tablespoonsful sweet cream, teaspoonful of butter, pinch sugar and salt.
Put little butter in hot pan, pour in mixture, cook over hot fire. Hold
over omelette red hot stove lid so as to raise it without turning. Put
on hot dish. Have ready any jelly, spread over omelette. Fold omelette
towards center.

                                                       Mrs. John Gregg.


                            Simple Omelette.

4 eggs, beaten together lightly with a fork, a scant half teaspoonful of
salt, half a saltspoonful of pepper, and 4 tablespoonsful of cream. Add
these to the beaten eggs and mix well. Pour into a hot, buttered
omelette pan and lift or pick constantly with a fork until firm and
brown underneath. Then fold and serve.

                                                               S. M. W.


                              Boiled Eggs.

Place on the fire in cold water and leave till the water boils.

                                                               S. M. W.


                             Poached Eggs.

Have boiling, salted milk in the skillet and poach as in water.

                                                               S. M. W.


                              French Eggs.

Boil 4 eggs twenty minutes, remove shells, separate the whites and
yolks, chop the whites fine. Make a nice cream sauce and into this stir
the chopped whites. Have ready on a platter six half slices of bread,
toasted and buttered, pour the cream sauce over the toast, and over all
grate the yolks of the eggs. Serve very hot.

                                                      W. W. MacFarland.


                            Cheese Souffle.

1 large cup of sweet milk, 1 even tablespoonful of corn starch, 1 large
cup of grated cheese, 3 eggs beaten separately, salt and pepper. Put
milk and corn starch on stove and stir until like gravy, add cheese,
pepper, salt and eggs, stirring in the beaten whites last. Put in
buttered dish and bake in a quick oven.

                                                    Mrs. W. J. Pollock.


                 *        *        *        *        *

                              JOHN RENNER,

           Wall Paper, Window Shades, Lace & Portier Curtains

           Picture Frames, Mouldings, Paints, Varnishes, Etc.

                         612-614 JEFFERSON ST.

                     THE BEST HOUSE IN BURLINGTON.

                 *        *        *        *        *




                           MEATS AND ENTREES.


               Roast Sirloin of Beef, Yorkshire Pudding.

The sirloin of beef is the outer or upper part of the loins, covering
the kidneys and separated from the tenderloin by a flat bone. It is
known to American housekeepers as porter house, (the popular steak of
the old New York porter and ale houses, hence its name). The cut usually
palmed off on New York housekeepers as sirloin is a hip steak or roast,
the proper name of which is a rump-cut, considered by New England
people, to be one of the best joints. Select the middle cut of the loin
of a good-sized animal, and see to it that the outer fat is at least a
quarter of an inch thick; for if the top covering of fat be thin, and
more like gristle than fat, the meat will be found very tough and
unpalatable. Trim away most of the inner fat and a part of the flank;
and as the tenderloin is more useful as steaks or an entree, it is best
to cut it out; also turn the flank under, and if skewers are used,
insert them in the flank only. Salt and pepper the whole joint
liberally, and dash a little flour over the outer fat. Put it in a pan
large enough to hold the joint and a pudding, and when the joint is half
done add the pudding. While cooking baste the meat, and if the pudding
is too dry, baste it also. At the end of an hour and a half, an
eight-pound joint, if a good thick one, will be cooked; but, if a thin
joint, a much shorter time is required.

To make the Yorkshire pudding: Beat thoroughly 5 eggs, add to them a
teaspoonful of salt, a pint of milk and a teaspoonful of lemon juice.
Sift together two teaspoonsful of baking powder and three half pints of
flour. Add the egg mixture gradually and make a stiff batter. Put it in
the pan, not under, but beside the beef. [A Yorkshire matron suggests
the addition of lemon juice to correct the two frequent ill-effects of
so rich a dish.]


                               Beef Loaf.

Take 1 pound of raw beef chopped fine, 6 large crackers rolled fine,
salt and pepper, and one egg, mix and form into a loaf. Melt a little
butter and rub over the loaf and pour over it one cup canned tomatoes.
Bake three quarters of an hour. Baste frequently. Serve hot.

                                                 Mrs. Seymour H. Jones.


                  Fricassee of Veal With Oyster Plant.

Trim off all surplus fat and bone from the breast of veal, and cut the
meat into neatly shaped pieces; dredge these with flour, and put them in
a sauce pan with butter enough to prevent burning. Cover, and let it
steam in its own vapors thirty minutes; then add a pint of soup-stock or
water and let it cook slowly. Scrape and cut into narrow strips as much
oyster plant as you have meat in bulk; add to it the meat, with salt, a
few whole white peppers, a dash of nutmeg and a teaspoonful of grated
lemon-peel. Add a little more stock if a liberal quantity of sauce is
desired. Cover the dish and simmer until tender, allowing forty minutes
for the vegetables to cook, care being exercised that they are not
cooked too much. Remove the pan to the back of the range; take out a
gill of the liquid, and add to it the beaten yolks of three eggs. Pour
this over the contents of the sauce pan, let it stand a few minutes
longer. Serve. Garnish the dish with slices of lemon, triangular
croutons and sprigs of parsley.

                                                               E. G. R.


                          Stuffed Tenderloin.

Use 4 tenderloins, have them laid open, not cut in two. Make stuffing
same as for turkey. Bind two tenderloins together with stuffing between.
Season with salt and pepper. Fill the pan almost half full of water,
bake 2½ hours, baste frequently. Make gravy. Remove the binding string
before sending to the table.

                                                    Mrs. H. C. Garrett.


                             Fried Kidney.

Take 4 lamb kidneys, wash well in boiling water and dry, dip in mixed
pepper, salt and flour. Put a tablespoon of butter in frying pan and
brown; put in kidneys and brown thoroughly, add half a tea cup of cold
water, cover, simmer 1 hour. Put in bowl, leave till morning. When used
put teaspoonful of butter in pan, brown, small onion chopped very fine,
mix with teaspoon of flour, thin with sweet milk, add kidneys, season
with salt and pepper.

                                                       Mrs. John Gregg.


                          Stuffed Veal Steaks.

Season the steaks, cut rather thin, on both sides with salt and pepper.
Roll them about slices of toast, buttered on both sides, and tie up. Put
in baking pan with a bit of salt pork on each roll, and bake in moderate
oven about forty minutes. Make a gravy and pour over them when served,
on a hot platter.

                                                               M. G. M.


                            Spring Chickens.

Spring chickens may be either broiled or fried. They are especially
liked fried in the southern way. Cut the chickens in pieces as for
fricasseeing, have the frying pan very hot, put a quarter cup of butter
in; when smoking, add chicken, cover and let fry until a golden brown on
one side, then turn and fry on other. It usually takes two fryings to
cook a pair of chickens, as a spider boils only one chicken. When the
chicken is all fried lay the pieces on brown paper to absorb any fat.
Add a tablespoonful of flour to the drippings in pan, add a cup of cream
and stir the mixture until it boils, then add a tablespoonful of chopped
parsley. Remove the chicken from the brown paper cover and arrange the
pieces evenly on the dish and strain the sauce over them. Serve at once.

                                                               K. T. R.


                     Chicken Fricassee, With Peas.

Select a dry-picked young fowl, cut into joints, remove the skin, rinse
in warm water, dip into cold water, drain, and dredge with flour. Put
them in a warm saucepan and cover with hot water; add salt and pepper, a
sprig of parsley and a piece of lemon peel, simmer two hours and remove
chicken. Beat up the yolk of one egg with a gill of cream, add it to the
warm sauce and whisk thoroughly. Arrange the chicken on a dish, pour the
sauce over it, add as a border a quantity of hot, fresh or canned peas,
and serve.

                                                               E. G. R.


                          Remarks on Entrees.

Entrees are the middle dishes of the feast, and not the principal
course, as many suppose. They are a series of dainty side dishes in the
preparation of which the cook demonstrates the extent of her
capabilities. Should they be prepared in a careless manner, they cloy
the palate and prevent that much-abused organ from appreciating the more
important dishes of the feast. They should not only be nicely prepared,
but much care and ingenuity should be shown in the arraying of them on
the platter. To prepare palate-pleasing entrees one must study to please
the eye quite as much as the palate.


                            Creamed Chicken.

1 chicken of 4½ pounds or two of 6 pounds, 4 sweet breads, 1 can
mushrooms. Boil chicken and sweet breads; when cold cut up as for salad.
Add mushrooms (if large cut in 4 pieces.) In a saucepan put a quart of
cream, in another 4 large tablespoonsful butter, 5 even ones of flour,
stir until melted. Then pour on hot cream, stirring until it thickens.
Flavor with small half grated onion and a very little nutmeg, season
highly with black and red pepper. Mix all together, put in a baking
dish, cover with bread crumbs and pieces of butter. Bake twenty minutes.

                                                    Mrs. H. W. Perkins.


                             Cream Chicken.

One cold boiled chicken, cut in small pieces. Two sweet breads, boiled
and cut in small pieces; one can of mushrooms, drain all the water off
and cut up; 1 pint of cream, 1 pint of milk, yolks of 2 eggs, 3
tablespoonsful of flour, ½ pound of butter, flour and eggs mix together.
Heat cream and butter together and mix with eggs and flour. Cook for
fifteen minutes till all a cream, pour over the other ingredients while
hot. Grate bread crumbs on top and brown in oven.

                                                     Frances H. Potter.


                           Chicken and Curry.

1 boiled chicken, cut up; heat in a sauce pan 1½ tablespoonful of
butter, 1 tablespoonful flour, thin with chicken broth; put in cup 2
teaspoonsful curry powder, mix with little broth, add to sauce, put in
chicken, heat. Have ready a dish of boiled rice. Serve chicken on
platter, with rice around it.

                                                       Mrs. John Gregg.


                            Pressed Chicken.

Take one or two chickens, boil in a small quantity of water with a
little salt, and when thoroughly done, take all the meat from the bones,
removing the skin and keeping the light meat separate from the dark;
chop and season to taste with salt and pepper. If a meat presser is at
hand, take it, or any other mould such as a crock or pan will do; put in
a layer of light and a layer of dark meat till all is used, add the
liquor it was boiled in, which should be about 1 teacupful, and put on a
heavy weight; when cold cut in slices. Many chop all the meat together,
add 1 pounded cracker to the liquor it was boiled in and mix all
thoroughly before putting in the mold. Either way is nice. Boned turkey
can be prepared in the same way, slicing instead of chopping.

                                                               M. E. S.


                                Buckeye.

Make recipe for pressed chicken and use enough chicken in addition to
make a strong broth to mix with it. The broth should be boiled down so
that it will jelly after they are mixed, to set away together. Press
white even sized, bottled mushrooms into the top, in shape of letters
desired. Set away with top turned down (so that the letters are in the
bottom when set away). Put weight on top of mould when set away.

                                                               M. E. S.


                             Sweet Breads.

In boiling sweet breads a porcelain kettle should be used and in cutting
them a silver knife, as they contain an acid that acts upon iron, tin or
steel and destroys much of the delicate flavor. In whatever style sweet
breads are served, they should first be soaked in salt water, then
plunged into boiling water to whiten and harden them.

                                                      Mrs. L. I. Roads.


                          Sweet Bread Patties.

For 25 persons purchase three pairs of sweet breads, parboil them and
pick to pieces, rejecting all fibrous skin, cut into small pieces. Half
hour before serving put 3 tablespoonsful of butter and 3 tablespoonsful
of flour into a sauce pan, and melt carefully without browning, add 1½
pint of milk, stir constantly until boiling, add one can of finely
chopped mushrooms, salt and pepper to taste, when the sauce reaches the
boiling point add the sweet breads. Fill Patties and serve hot.

                                                      Mrs. L. I. Roads.


                         Lambs Tongue on Toast.

A number of excellent dishes can be prepared from the dainty tongue of
the lamb, whether it be pickled or fresh. If pickled blanch it in hot
water a moment to draw out its acidity, then plunge into cold water,
drain, and cut into thin slices, toss them about in a little butter a
moment, cover with gravy nicely seasoned and slightly thickened, and
serve on toast. The fresh tongue should be first boiled and then cooked
in the gravy whole, if preferred; but they are more evenly permeated
with the gravy if quartered or sliced.

                                                               E. G. R.


                            Entrees of Veal.


                             Curry of Veal.

Cut up 1 pound of raw Veal into inch pieces. Mix 1 teaspoonful of curry,
½ teaspoonful of rice flour, and 1 saltspoonful of salt together; dip
the meat in melted butter or oil, then roll each piece in the powder,
and fry it in butter until a delicate brown. Onion may be added or
omitted. Mince half a sour apple and fry it with the meat; add half a
pint of soup stock; simmer half an hour. Squeeze over all the juice of
half a lemon, mix and serve.

                                                               E. G. R.


                               Veal Loaf.

3 pounds lean veal chopped fine, ¼ salt pork, 2 eggs well beaten, 1 cup
rolled crackers, ½ nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful red pepper, 2 teaspoonsful
salt, ½ cup of milk, 1 tablespoonful sage, piece of 1 lemon. Mix
thoroughly, make into a loaf, bake two hours. Baste often with water,
seasoned with butter, pepper and salt. Slice when cold.

                                                    Mrs. H. C. Garrett.


                               Veal Loaf.

1 pound of pork, 2 pounds of veal chopped fine, 4 eggs well beaten, 4
soda crackers rolled fine, ½ cup sweet milk, salt and pepper to taste,
mould in a loaf, bake forty minutes, sprinkle some rolled crackers over
the top and dot with butter, makes the top brown nicer and flakey.

                                                     Mrs. J. L. Arnold.


                               Veal Loaf.

3 pounds veal chopped fine, ½ pound salt pork, 3 eggs, 1 teaspoonful
pepper, 1 teaspoonful salt, sage to taste, piece of butter size of an
egg, 1 cup crackers rolled fine. Stir with the eggs, add the butter, and
cup of hot water. Bake three hours.

                                                               W. E. P.


                            Veal Croquettes.

1 pint chopped meat, ½ pint bread and milk, yolks of 2 eggs, 1 gill
cream, butter the size of an egg, season well with salt and pepper, warm
bread and milk on the stove until thoroughly mixed, then add the other
ingredients mixed together. If too soft add cracker crumbs. Form into
croquettes, dip into the white of an egg, roll in fine bread crumbs, and
fry in hot lard.

                                                               M. G. M.


                              Fricadella.

½ pound each of veal, lean pork and round steak, add yolks of 3 eggs,
beating into the meat quite hard, beat whites separately very light, add
to the meat ½ cup melted butter, ½ cup of cracker crumbs, ½ cup of
water, a little nutmeg, salt and pepper, mix all together. Shape into
croquettes, roll in cracker crumbs, put in baking pan with considerable
butter. Bake one half hour, baste frequently, add ½ cup cream just
before serving, makes 18 croquettes.

                                                        Mrs. E. E. Gay.


                            Rice Croquettes.

Boil ½ pint of rice in 1 pint of milk, whip into the hot rice 2 ounces
of butter, 2 ounces of sugar, salt and the yolks of 2 eggs. If the
batter is too stiff add a bit more of milk, when cold roll into balls,
dip them in beaten egg, roll in fine bread or cracker crumbs, and fry as
you would doughnuts.

                                                               E. G. R.


                           Steamed Dumplings.

2 cups of flour; 1 teaspoonful of baking powder, enough milk to make a
soft biscuit dough, stirring with a spoon. Fill a small buttered pan
with the mixture and steam over boiling water for an hour. Break in
cakes with a fork and put in hot dish and cover with any kind of gravy.
This is especially good served on platter with fricasseed chicken.

                                                               C. S. C.


                      Cream Fritters, (Very Nice).

1 cup of cream, 5 eggs (whites only), 2 full cups prepared flour, 1
saltspoonful of nutmeg, 1 pinch of salt. Stir white of eggs into the
cream in turn with flour, put in nutmeg and salt, beat all up hard for
two minutes. The batter should be thick (rather). Fry in plenty of sweet
lard, one spoonful for each fritter, drain and serve upon a hot, clean
napkin.

                                                                  Sara.


                         Sweet Breads and Peas.

Soak 2 pair of sweet breads in salt water ½ hour, parboil till tender.
Place in biscuit pan butter size of an egg, add sweet breads, a can of
peas with a little of the liquor, and salt and pepper. When nicely
browned remove sweet breads to a platter, arranging peas around them.
Pour over this a dressing made of the liquor, a little milk, salt and
pepper, and a lump of butter. Thicken to consistency of cream.

                                                       Mrs. Will Moore.


                 *        *        *        *        *

                            MAURO & WILSON,
                           CORNER BOOK STORE.

                       Wall Paper, Window Shades,

               Pictures, Frames, Books, Stationery, Etc.

                     COR. FOURTH AND JEFFERSON STS.

                 *        *        *        *        *

                         AFTER ALL THE TROUBLE

and expense of trying to prepare a tempting dish, you will have the
disappointment and mortification of a failure; unless the condiments
used are prime. Don’t forget that you can not convert bran into angel’s
food, neither can you make dainty dishes without using

                           STANDARD CORDIALS,
                          PURE SELECT SPICES,
                         CAREFULLY MIXED CURRY,
                        TRUE FLAVORING EXTRACTS.
                        FRESH, SWEET SALAD OILS.

                       WHERE CAN YOU GET THEM? AT

                          HENRY’S DRUG STORE.

                 *        *        *        *        *




                              VEGETABLES.


                  To Preserve the Color of Vegetables.

The French cooks generally use carbonate of ammonia to preserve the
color of vegetables. What would lay on the point of a pen knife, is
mixed in the water in which the vegetables (such as peas, spinach,
string-beans and asparagus) are boiled. The ammonia all evaporates in
boiling, leaving no ill effects. They also say that it prevents the odor
of boiling cabbage.

                                                  Mrs. M. F. Henderson.


                              Cauliflower.

Divide the Cauliflower into little boquets of square size, and cook in
hot salted water, strain and cool on a plate, season with salt, white
pepper, chopped parsley, and sprinkle with flour; dip in beaten egg,
plunge into hot lard a few at a time, when light brown lift out, strain
and serve hot. Hinsdale.

                                                    Mrs. W. J. Pollock.


                        Cauliflower With Cheese.

Select a fine head of cauliflower, break off the outer leaves and tie it
up in a piece of cheese-cloth. Plunge it into slightly salted boiling
water and cook fifteen minutes. Make a sauce by cooking together 1
teaspoonful of butter and adding to them a generous ½ pint of boiling
water. Stir until thick and smooth, and add a heaping tablespoonful of
grated cheese (Parmesan is the best). Drain the cauliflower of every
drop of water and lay it flower upward in a baking dish. Dust it with
salt and pepper and pour the sauce over it. Strew cheese plentifully
over it and dot thickly with butter. Brown in a quick oven and serve in
baking dish.

                                                               F. A. S.


                             Corn Oysters.

To 1 quart of grated corn add 3 eggs and 3 or 4 large square crackers,
grated; beat well and season with salt and pepper, fry in hot lard. If
the lard is the right heat the oysters will be light and delicious, but
if not heavy and soggy. Serve hot and keep the dish well covered. It is
better to beat the whites of eggs very stiff and add just before frying.

                                                               E. G. R.


                             Corn Pudding.

Grate 12 ears of corn, scrape the pulp out; 1 quart of milk, add butter
size of an egg, salt and pepper to taste, a little sugar. Bake an hour
and serve as a vegetable.


                              Corn Cakes.

Grate the corn from a dozen ears, season with salt and pepper. Have a
little hot lard in a frying pan. Drop from a spoon.


                             Corn Fritters.

To 2 cupsful of green corn, boiled on the cob, and cut off and chopped,
add one well beaten egg, a teaspoonful of butter, one very small
teaspoonful of sugar, salt to taste, add just enough rolled cracker to
hold the ingredients together, form into croquettes with floured hands
and fry in deep pot. You can if preferred roll them in egg, then cracker
crumbs before frying. About 7 ears of corn is sufficient.


                            Stuffed Cabbage.

Wash thoroughly, have a thick white cabbage, cut root off in shape of a
lid, hollow the heart of the cabbage, have ½ pound lean pork, ½ pound
beef minced fine, season with pepper and salt, 2 eggs, 1 tablespoonful
flour, a little sweet milk, stir well together, fill in cabbage, put on
lid, tie well in a cloth, put in a pot covered with cold water. Boil
five hours slowly. Serve with butter.

                                                       Mrs. John Gregg.


                        Hashed Potatoes Crowned.

Chop cold boiled potatoes, put them in a sauce pan with milk, butter and
salt to taste, have some hot butter in a frying pan, pour in potatoes
and let them brown. Serve in shape of an omelet and garnish with
parsley.


                        Potatoes a la Florento.

Peel, wash and cut 6 large potatoes into thin slices like straws, season
with salt and white pepper. Butter 8 small moulds, dust with bread
crumbs, fill them half full with the potatoes, sprinkle over them each a
half tablespoonful of grated cheese, then add more potatoes, cover with
cheese and pour 1 tablespoonful of melted butter over each one. Bake in
moderate oven about 35 minutes. Lay fish on hot dish, turn potatoes out
of moulds and set in circle around the fish.

                                                    Mrs. W. J. Pollock.


                            Baked Potatoes.

Take potatoes of large uniform size, clean them thoroughly with a brush,
bake until well done. Cut them in half with a sharp knife lengthwise.
Carefully remove the white part, and season with a little butter-milk
and salt, beat thoroughly, replace the potato into the half potato
skins, smooth the tops over and place in the oven until the tops are a
nice light brown. Serve hot.

                                                         Mrs. R. Crapo.


                         Baked Sweet Potatoes.

Take cold boiled sweet potatoes, remove the skin and slice the long way.
Put a layer of potatoes in a shallow pan, then little pieces of butter
and a thin layer of sugar, then a layer of potatoes and so on as many
layers as desired, having butter and sugar on top. Place in a moderately
hot oven until thoroughly heated through.

                                                    Mrs. H. C. Garrett.


                      Relish for Cold Boiled Ham.

To be made in time of fresh carrots and young peas. Take 3 bunches young
carrots, wash well, cut in thin round slices, boil with a quart young
peas and a ham bone till tender, strain and take out bone. Put in stew
pan tablespoonful of butter, half tablespoonful of flour, thin with
small half cup sweet milk, add small cup of liquor vegetables were
boiled in, add half a teaspoonful of sugar, pinch of salt, put in
vegetables, let come to a boil, add little parsley chopped fine, put
immediately in a dish and serve.

                                                       Mrs. John Gregg.


                           Rice With Raisins.

Take ½ cup of rice, wash well, boil till tender. Add 1 heaping
tablespoonful of butter, ½ cup stoned raisins, washed well. Dip mould in
cold water, pour in mixture, let cool. To be passed with clear soup.

                                                       Mrs. John Gregg.


                      Spaghetti With Tomato Sauce.

Boil a half pound of spaghetti in abundance of water for twenty-five
minutes, then pour off the water, shake the spaghetti as you would
potatoes and turn on to a hot dish, sprinkle 3 tablespoonsful of
Parmesan cheese over it, pour a little hot tomato sauce over this and
serve with a dish of cheese.

                                                    Mrs. H. W. Perkins.


                           Broiled Tomatoes.

Medium sized tomatoes, have a hot gridiron buttered, lay the tomatoes on
over a good bed of coals, cooking first one side and then the other
until done through. Serve hot with butter, pepper and salt. Takes about
20 minutes.


                            Turkish Pilaff.

1 cupful of stock or water, 1 cupful stewed and strained tomatoes, ⅔
cupful of rice, ½ cupful of butter, 1 teaspoonful of salt, ½ teaspoonful
of pepper. Boil one onion with the tomatoes, cook the rice in boiling
water to cover for ten minutes, pour off all the water, add the stock
and tomato and cook until the liquor is all absolved, then add the
butter and let it stand covered with a crash towel ten or fifteen
minutes. Serve as a vegetable.

                                                       M. W. McFarland.


                            Turkish Pilaff.

1 cup stewed and strained tomatoes, 1 cup of stock highly seasoned with
salt, pepper and minced onion. When boiling add 1 cup well washed rice,
stir lightly with a fork until the liquor is absorbed, then add ½ a cup
of butter, set on back of stove, or in a double boiler and steam twenty
minutes.


                 *        *        *        *        *

                   WHY NOT HAVE AN ESTIMATE MADE FOR

                           Electric Lighting.

                 THE BURLINGTON ELECTRIC LIGHTING CO.,
                     Would be Pleased to Serve You.

              Drop a line to them and their Representative
                will cheerfully call and submit prices.

                 *        *        *        *        *

                        Estate of FRANK KUPPER,
                 Hardware, Tinware, and Royal Furnaces

                 *        *        *        *        *

                           R. M. RAAB & BRO.,
               LEADING CLOTHIERS, TAILORS AND FURNISHERS,
                       217 and 219 Jefferson St.
                           BURLINGTON, IOWA.

                 *        *        *        *        *

                  BURLINGTON TENT AND AWNING FACTORY,
                      M. F. WIEDEMAN, Proprietor,
               TENTS FOR RENT.         313 North Main St.

                 *        *        *        *        *

                           THEO. W. NIEMANN,

     Choice Groceries, Table Luxuries, Fresh Vegetables and Fruits,

        Telephone No. 134.       Cor. Fourth and Washington Sts.

                 *        *        *        *        *

     Established 1852.      TELEPHONE 116.      Open Day and Night.
                            I. PRUGH & SONS,
                    FUNERAL DIRECTORS AND EMBALMERS,
             316 North Fourth St.         BURLINGTON, IOWA.

                 *        *        *        *        *

                                  XANO

    The Ideal Cleaner and Polisher for Silver, Silverware, Glass and
                               Glassware,
 Lamp Chimneys, Show Windows, Show Cases, Mirrors, Etc. For sale at all
Groceries and Drug Stores. Try a box and if not satisfactory return it.

          JOHN A. O’NEAL, Manager.      XANO MANUFACTURING CO.

                 *        *        *        *        *

      Housewives and cooks will do well to remember, that in order
             to secure the best results it is essential to
                         use pure constituents.

                   BOECK’S “MONOGRAM BRAND” LEAF LARD
                            IS STRICTLY PURE
       Put up in fancy 3, 5, 10, 20 and 50 lb. lithographed tins

                      FOR SALE BY LEADING GROCERS.

                 *        *        *        *        *




                                SALADS.


                             Chicken Salad.

For one large chicken and same amount of celery after chicken is
chopped, make the following dressing; 2 beaten eggs, 1 tablespoonful of
mustard, 2 tablespoonsful of butter or oil, 1 teaspoonful of salt, juice
of 1 lemon. Steam in double boiler till thick as cream and add one cup
rich cream last. Pour over chicken and celery.

                                                    Mrs. E. J. Norwood.


                             Chinese Salad.

Cover a hot platter with a layer of egg noodles well drained after
removing from the boiling salt water. Over this spread a layer of cold
minced chicken heated in the chicken gravy and seasoned with one
teaspoonful of finely chopped onion. Then cover it all with celery, cut
in ½ inch pieces. Garnish with the celery tops and serve at once.

                                                               C. S. C.


                       Cream Dressing for Salad.

Yolks of 10 eggs, 2 tablespoonsful of sugar. Beat until quite light,
then add 10 tablespoonsful boiling vinegar. Boil all together until it
becomes very thick, then add ¾ of a cup of butter. When ready to use
reduce to proper consistency by adding sweet cream.

                                                     Mrs. W. G. Mercer.


                         Cream Salad Dressing.

Yolks of 5 eggs, 5 tablespoonsful of vinegar. Put the vinegar in stew
pan and while it is heating, beat the yolks. When the vinegar boils pour
it over the eggs. Put the whole in double boiler and stir until thick,
add 1 tablespoonful of butter. When cold thin with cream. Season with
salt and pepper, black or red, and a little mustard.


                            Salad Dressing.

1 tablespoonful of mustard, 1 tablespoonful of butter, 1 tablespoonful
of salt, 1 tablespoonful of sugar, 1 tablespoonful of corn starch, a
dash of red pepper, 3 eggs beaten thoroughly, 1 cup of cream, warm
slightly and add 1 cup of strong vinegar. Heat in double boiler until
thick like custard. Stir until cold.

                                                    Mrs. W. J. Pollock.


                               Egg Slaw.

Chop fine some nice white cabbage; to about 3 pints of same take 2
tablespoonsful of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of salt, ½ teaspoonful prepared
French mustard, mix with raw cabbage; next cook 2 eggs well beaten,
butter size of hen’s egg, and 1 teacupful vinegar together in porcelain
or earthen-ware vessel, mix with above and serve.


                           Grape Fruit Salad.

Wash lettuce and let stand a while in cold water, then shake out leaves
and arrange in salad bowl, cut grape fruit in half and with a spoon take
out all the pulp, taking care to preserve the juice. Arrange the pulp on
lettuce leaves and make dressing of oil and juice. To every 3
tablespoonsful of oil allow ½ teaspoonful of salt and ¼ teaspoonful of
white pepper. Put all these ingredients in a bowl and dissolve the salt
and pepper in the oil, then rub the spoon with garlic and stir in the
juice of the fruit until emulsion is formed, pour over the lettuce and
pulp and serve at once. About 1 tablespoonful of juice should be
sufficient for 3 of oil. Stir vigorously, as soon as a whitish compound
is formed the dressing is ready for use.

                                                    Mrs. W. J. Pollock.


                             Potato Salad.

Yolks of 5 eggs, 1 tablespoonful of vinegar to each yolk, 1 level
tablespoonful of butter to each yolk, salt and pepper to taste. Boil and
stir until thick, thin with cream or milk when cold, and you wish to use
it. Add to the sliced potato a little chopped onion, parsley and celery,
especially the onion.


                             Potato Salad.

To ⅔ of cold boiled potatoes cut in shape and size of a dice take ⅓ of
celery.

DRESSING.—6 tablespoonsful of mixed mustard, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1
teaspoonful of black pepper, 4 eggs well beaten, 6 tablespoonsful of
vinegar, 1 tablespoonful of hard butter, 1 dessertspoonful of sugar. Use
red pepper if preferred. Set the dish with the mixture in boiling water
and stir until it thickens.


                      Salad Dressing for Potatoes.

Add the well beaten yolks of 5 eggs to a small teacupful of boiling
vinegar. Cook in earthen bowl, set in a pan of boiling water until
stiff, stir clean from the sides of the bowl while cooking, take from
fire, add 4 tablespoonsful of butter, stir until cool and perfectly
mixed. Add a tablespoonful of minced onions and parsley each to a pint
of dressing. When quite cold season with salt and pepper and a
teaspoonful of mixed mustard, thin with sweet cream. Cook potatoes and
let cool, cut in small squares and put dressing over them.

                                                               N. E. P.


                           Salade de Salmon.

Take 1½ to 2 pounds of cold boiled salmon, pick into nice flaky pieces,
season well with oil, vinegar, dry mustard and pepper. Take inside of
head of lettuce and a little celery, place salmon on it, garnish with
beet roots, whites of hard boiled eggs and sliced lemon.

                                                         Mrs. Marshall.


                             Salmon Salad.

1 can salmon cut in small pieces, 1 small head of hard cabbage chopped
fine, 1 dozen small cucumber pickles chopped, 2 hard boiled eggs,
chopped. Mix ingredients well together and pour over 1 pint vinegar
after beating it to scalding, and seasoning with pepper, salt and
mustard to taste.


                            Salad Dressing.

Yolks of 4 eggs, teaspoonful of salt, red pepper (very little), 2
tablespoonsful of sugar. Heat well together. Add 4 tablespoonsful of
vinegar, cook until thick. Add 2 tablespoonsful of butter after taking
from stove. Thin with lemon juice and cream.


                             Tomato Jelly.

½ can of tomatoes, 3 cloves, 1 bay leaf, 1 slice onion, ½ teaspoonful
thyme, 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 teaspoonful sugar, pinch of pepper, ¼ box
or ½ ounce of gelatine soaked in ½ cup of water. Boil together the
tomatoes, spices and onion until the tomato is soft, then add gelatine
and stir until the gelatine is thoroughly mixed. Then strain and pour it
into a ring-shaped mold to set. Serve with the center of the jelly-ring
filled with celery cut into pieces or curled and mixed with mayonnaise.
Form outside the ring a wreath of curled lettuce.

                                                     Mrs. Wm. D. Eaton.


                             Tongue Salad.

Boil 1 tongue, cut into dice, 3 hard boiled eggs, cut whites into dice,
shred lettuce leaves in small pieces, mix tongue and egg with mayonnaise
dressing, add lettuce, crush yolks with fork and sprinkle over the
salad. Garnish with lettuce, pickles, beets or onions.

                                                  Miss Genevieve Adams.




                         PICKLES AND RELISHES.


Some cooks never know what to serve with different meats as relish. We
give the following table: With roast beef, grated horse radish; roast
mutton, currant jelly; boiled mutton, caper sauce; roast pork, apple
sauce; boiled chicken, bread sauce; roast lamb, mint sauce; roast
turkey, oyster sauce; venison or wild duck, black currant jelly; broiled
fresh mackerel, sauce of stewed gooseberries; boiled bluefish, white
cream sauce; boiled shad, boiled rice and salad; compote of pigeons,
mushroom sauce; fresh salmon, green peas with cream sauce; roast goose,
apple sauce.

                                                               E. G. R.


                            Oiled Cucumbers.

An Excellent Relish—1 peck medium sized cucumbers, pare and slice half
an inch thick. Put in jars with salt in layers and stand over night.
Wash off the brine and dry. 1 cup best olive oil, 1 ounce white mustard
seed, 1 ounce black mustard seed, 1 teaspoonful celery seed. Pour over
the cucumbers and stir thoroughly. Heat 1 quart vinegar to boiling point
and when cold pour over all. Seal.

                                                  Katherine N. Stevens.


                              Oil Pickles.

3 dozen large cucumbers, ¼ peck of onions, ¼ peck of red or green large
sugar peppers. Half and seed the peppers, slice the cucumbers and the
onions, sprinkle salt over all, let them stand over night; then pour
water over them and drain them well, then put in jars or large glass
bottles, a layer of each until the jar is full with the following
spices: 1 ounce of allspice ground, 1 ounce of cloves ground, ¼ pound of
mustard ground, 1 pint of sweet olive oil; mix these and 3
tablespoonsful of black pepper together, pour over the pickles and fill
your jars with cold vinegar.

                                                      Mrs. E. L. Stone.


                        Little Cucumber Pickles.

When the cucumbers are gathered, wash them and put them in strong salt
water. In the course of two weeks or a month, rinse and drain them
thoroughly and allow them to come to a boil in good cider vinegar in
which a lump of alum the size of a chestnut has been dissolved. Stir
them to make them uniform. They can stand in this plain vinegar a month
or two if desired. Then to each quart of vinegar take a ½ pound of
sugar, a handful of white mustard seed and one of black, a tablespoonful
of celery seed, a handful of garlic, one of orange peel and one each of
stick cinnamon, red peppers, horse radish and a blade or two of mace.
Take the cucumbers from the plain vinegar, drain, and heat, but not
boil, in the spiced vinegar. Bottle and put away for use.

                                                               L. R. B.


                         Oiled Cucumber Pickle.

1 peck medium sized cucumbers. Pare and slice in ½ inch slices, stand
over night with a little salt thrown over them; and in the morning wash
with clear water through a colander. Take a small cup of olive oil, ½
ounce of white mustard seed, ½ ounce of black mustard seed, 1
teaspoonful of celery seed. Mix seeds in oil and pour over the cucumbers
and stir thoroughly. Have a quart of vinegar made hot and when cool pour
over the cucumbers and put in jars. Have the cucumbers covered with
vinegar. Seal if you wish.

                                                     Frances H. Potter.


                            Chopped Pickle.

2 gallons chopped cabbage, 2 gallons chopped tomatoes, 1 gallon chopped
cucumbers, ½ gallon chopped onions. Salt each separately and let stand
twelve hours. Then wash thoroughly, squeezing through a cloth. Mix all
the ingredients together, adding 3 large red peppers, chopped fine, 3
small hot peppers, chopped fine, ½ pint of celery seed, 1 cup of brown
sugar, 1 gallon of vinegar. Heat slowly till it turns yellow. Pack in
jars.

                                                               M. A. S.


                         Green Tomato Pickles.

1 peck green tomatoes sliced the day before you are ready for pickling,
sprinkling them through and through with salt—not too heavily. In the
morning drain off all liquor from them. Have a dozen good-sized onions
rather coarsely sliced. Take a suitable kettle and put in a layer of
sliced tomatoes, then of onions, and between each layer sprinkle the
following spices: 6 red peppers chopped coarsely, 1 cup of sugar, 1
tablespoonful each of ground cinnamon, ground allspice and mustard, 1
teaspoonful of cloves. Pour over 3 pints good vinegar, or enough to
completely cover them, boil until tender. If the flavor of onions is
objectionable the pickle is equally good without them.

                                                    Mrs. H. W. Perkins.


                            Spiced Currants.

Pick the currants from the stem, weigh them, and to each pound of
currants take 1½ pound of sugar, wet it with a little vinegar. To 6 or 8
pounds of currants take 6 teaspoonsful of ground cloves and the same of
cinnamon. Dissolve sugar and vinegar, put in the currants and spice, and
let them boil half an hour, or until it is quite stiff when cooled. Put
in jelly glasses. When cold run a layer of melted paraffine over the
top, let it stand until perfectly cold, then put on covers.

                                                    Mrs. H. C. Garrett.


                              Chili Sauce.

9 large tomatoes, 3 small peppers, 1 large onion. Chop fine and add 2
small cups of vinegar, 2 tablespoonsful of sugar, 1 tablespoonful of
salt. Mix well together and boil 1 hour, then add 1 teaspoonful of
ginger, 1 teaspoonful allspice, ½ teaspoonful of cloves. Put in large
mouthed bottles and seal.


                   Horse-Radish Sauce for Roast Beef.

After beef is roasted, take pan gravy, pour fat from it, grate 2 inches
of horse-radish, put in bowl, leave under cover for several hours. Put
in pan ½ tablespoonful of butter, teaspoonful of flour, shake together,
thin with small ½ teacup of milk and the gravy, pinch of sugar and pinch
of salt.

                                                       Mrs. John Gregg.


                            Cucumber Catsup.

12 “White Spine” cucumbers, pare and remove seeds, chop or grate fine,
drain in muslin bag and squeeze dry as possible, add 6 white onions
chopped fine, 1 tablespoonful whole black peppers and ½ dozen red
peppers, chopped.

                                                               M. C. G.


                              Sauce Royal.

1 peck of ripe tomatoes (pared), 6 onions, 6 peppers (red), 6 cups of
sugar, 6 cups of vinegar, 6 tablespoonsful of salt. Chop onions and
peppers very fine, mix all together and boil an hour, cool and strain
through a colander, then heat, and seal boiling hot.

                                                         Mrs. R. Crapo.


                 *        *        *        *        *

       All the Receipts in this Book can be prepared better on a
                           GAS COOKING STOVE
                         THAN ANY OTHER STOVE.
      Call at our office and see them.  600 in use in Burlington.
                       BURLINGTON GAS LIGHT CO.,
                          308 North Fourth St.

                 *        *        *        *        *

                            STERLING & SON,
                             COAL AND WOOD,
           Telephone 238.       Cor. Main and Washington Sts.

                 *        *        *        *        *

                             WYMAN & RAND,
                            [INCORPORATED].

                    Carpets, Wall Paper, Draperies,
                WINDOW SHADES, WOOD MANTELS AND TILING.

           Cor. Valley and Third Sts.      BURLINGTON, IOWA.

                 *        *        *        *        *

                            RANKIN & DODGE,
         Wholesale and Retail ICE, Office, 605 Jefferson St.

 Telephone No. 130, two rings.      Ice House, Columbia & Central Ave.

                 *        *        *        *        *

                              DON’T FORGET
                                ——THE——
                          GREAT REMOVAL SALE!
                                 ——AT——
                          H. A. BROWN & CO.’S
                            217 MAIN STREET.

                 *        *        *        *        *




                          PASTRY AND PUDDINGS.


                             Plum Pudding.

     If you wish to learn to cook, buy Flint Hills’ Cook Book,
     And read it every day and night,
     Then study every dish, from mutton down to fish
     And learn to make it tempting to the sight;
     Be careful with your dough, and roll it very slow,
     O, have it just the proper size.
     Have an eye upon your spice; oh, cook it brown and nice,
     And then you’ll carry off the winning prize.

     You get a little flour, a lemon very tart,
     A handful of raisins with a clove,
     You put it in a bag, or any other rag.
     A nice bright fire in the stove;
     A little milk and egg, molasses just a dreg,
     A drop or two of rum that’s nice;
     You’d better watch the clock, don’t have it like a rock,
     This pudding that is mixed with spice.
                                             Abbie Mac Flinn.


                            Apple Dumplings.

Put a generous cup of sugar in a baking dish half full of hot water and
while this is boiling make the pastry. Sift a scant pint of flour with a
pinch of salt and even teaspoonful of baking powder, rub into this
butter or lard the size of an egg, and mix with milk or water. Roll thin
and cut in seven pieces; fill these with sliced apple. After moulding
them place in the hot syrup, sprinkle with nutmeg and bake about half an
hour. There is no need of serving sauce if there is plenty of syrup in
dish—though cream is an improvement.

                                                       Mrs. Will Moore.


                             Brown Pudding.

Stir thoroughly together 1 cup of molasses, 1 cup of butter, 1 cup of
sour milk, 1 cup of chopped raisins, 3 cups of flour, 1 teaspoonful of
soda in little boiling water; add citron if desired. Steam 3 hours.
Serve hot with wine sauce.

                                                            Mrs. Smith.


                              Fig Pudding.

Chop 6 ounces of suet and ½ pint of figs fine, add ¾ pint bread crumbs,
4 ounces of moist sugar. Mix first the bread and suet, then the figs and
sugar, add a little nutmeg, a well beaten egg, a cup of sweet milk.
Steam in a mold 4 hours.

SAUCE—1 cup of sugar, ½ cup of butter, boil well together, ¼ cup of
brandy added before taking from stove; beat yolk of 1 egg and stir in,
beat white of the egg and stir in, not before it is sent to the table.

                                                         Miss G. Adams.


                         Fruit Sponge Pudding.

2 cups of sponge cake crumbs, dry, 2 cups of boiling milk, 1
tablespoonful of butter, ½ cup of sugar, 2 tablespoonsful of flour
(prepared flour), ½ pound of currants, washed and dried, whites of 2
eggs whipped stiff, bitter almond flavoring. Soak cake in hot milk,
leave it over fire until scalding batter, stir in butter, sugar and
flour; the latter wet with cold milk, pour into bowl to cool. When
nearly cold stir in fruit-crumbs with eggs, sugar beaten to cream, corn
starch. Have water boiling hard, stir in pieces of fruit. Put mold at
once in hot water, serve with sauce.

                                                               K. E. R.


                             Snow Pudding.

Syrup of ⅔ cup boiling water, ⅔ cup of sugar, juice of 2 lemons; when
cool add ¼ package of Nelson’s gelatine which has been dissolved in cold
water. Beat to a stiff froth whites of 3 eggs and to this add slowly the
syrup, beat until quite thick, put in a mold and set away until hard.
Serve with a boiled custard made of the yolks of 3 eggs.

                                                               K. E. R.


                            Chocolate Pies.

Grate ½ cup of bakers’ chocolate, pour over a little cold water, then
add ½ cup of boiling water and dissolve thoroughly. Take yolks of 5 eggs
well beaten with one tablespoonful of corn starch. Add to this the
whites of the eggs beaten very light, 1 quart of milk and 1
tablespoonful of vanilla. Bake with an undercrust, with meringue on top.
This makes three pies.

                                                     Mrs. Wm. D. Eaton.


                               Date Pies.

Soak 1 pound of dates over night, sift, and add 1 quart of milk, 2 eggs,
salt, 2 tablespoonsful of sugar. Bake in rich crust like custard pies.
This makes two pies. Mrs. Seymour H. Jones.


                           French Cream Pie.

3 eggs, 1 cup of sugar, 3 tablespoonsful of water, 1½ cups of flour, 2
teaspoonsful baking powder. Beat the 3 yolks very light with the cup of
sugar, add water. Beat the whites very light and add to above by
spoonsful, alternately, with same of flour till both are lightly mixed
in, add baking powder last. Bake in two layers.

CREAM—1 pint boiling milk, 2 tablespoonsful of flour, 1 egg, ¾ cup of
sugar, flavor to taste. Cook like custard. When cakes are baked, arrange
on two plates, split with sharp knife and fill with the cream.

                                                 Mrs. Seymour H. Jones.


                              Squash Pie.

2½ cups of strained squash, 2½ cups of milk, 3 eggs, 1 tablespoonful
melted butter, 1 heaping cup of sugar, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 1
teaspoonful ginger, 1 scant teaspoonful mace. This makes two pies.

                                                    Mrs. C. P. Squires.


                        Secess or Southern Pie.

1 pint of milk, 1 pint of cream, 6 eggs. Line a deep dish with thin pie
crust and sprinkle seeded raisins over the bottom crust. Beat the eggs
light; leave out 3 whites for frosting. Add 1 small cup of sugar to the
eggs, put with the cream and milk, and pour into the crust after putting
in the flavor, either lemon or vanilla, and bake in the oven until
custard is set. Beat the three whites, add some powdered sugar, return
to the oven after putting the whites on top, until the top is a light
brown.

                                                    Mrs. Ruth R. Crapo.


                            Transparent Pie.

Make a rich crust and place in pie pan, drop over it fruit jelly. Make a
custard of 1 cup of sugar, ¾ cup of butter, 3 eggs, 1 cup of warm water.
Beat up the whites of eggs and add the last thing before baking. Served
cold.

                                                         Ella G. Roads.


                            Amherst Pudding.

1 cup of milk, 1 cup New Orleans molasses, 1 egg (beaten), 3 cups of
flour, 1 full cup of chopped and stoned raisins, 1 teaspoonful of salt,
about 1 teaspoonful each of cinnamon, clove and nutmeg. First dissolve
carefully 1 teaspoonful of soda in the molasses, then add the other
ingredients. Dredge raisins with part of the flour and add last. Steam
2½ or 3 hours. Serve with sauce.

                                                               S. S. C.


                            Amherst Pudding.

1½ cups of sour milk, 1 cup of dark molasses, 1 cup of suet, chopped
fine, 1 cup of seeded raisins, ½ cup of citron, 1 teaspoonful of soda, 1
teaspoonful of salt, stir all together, steam 3 hours.

SAUCE OF PUDDING—Into a pint of boiling water stir to a paste a
tablespoonful of corn starch or flour, rubbed smooth in a little cold
water; add a cup full of sugar, a tablespoonful of vinegar, cook well
for 3 minutes, add a piece of butter the size of a small egg, flavor
with a tablespoonful of vanilla.

                                                     Mrs. L. L. Arnold.


                            Anna’s Pudding.

1 pint of milk, ½ cup of flour. Dissolve flour in a little of the milk,
then add to the remainder of milk which should be boiling. Cook until it
thickens, then add ½ cup of butter, ½ cup of sugar, yolks of 5 eggs
thoroughly beaten. Last add the whites beaten very light and flavor with
vanilla. Set pudding dish in pan of boiling water and bake in a hot oven
20 or 25 minutes. Serve immediately with a hard sauce. It should be very
light and foamy. If allowed to stand it falls.

                                                     Mrs. Wm. D. Eaton.


                             Apple Pudding.

Fill a pudding dish with apples pared and quartered, cream 1 cup of
butter and 2 cups of sugar, add the yolks of 3 eggs, spread this over
apples and bake 45 minutes. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, sweeten,
and spread over the pudding, and return to oven to brown.


                            Banana Pudding.

1½ pints of milk, ½ box gelatine (cook in cup of cold water), 3 bananas.
Put milk on to boil with pinch of salt, when it is boiling hot add the
sugar. Dip enough milk into the gelatine to dissolve it, then put all
into the milk and let boil for ten minutes hard, cut bananas in thin
small pieces. When all is cool put the bananas in the gelatine and milk,
then pour into your mould. Eat next day with whipped cream.

                                                         Ella G. Roads.


                         Baked Batter Pudding.

Beat 5 eggs very light, stir into them a pint of sifted flour, add a
little salt. When eggs and flour are mixed smoothly together add a pint
of milk (a little at a time), stirring continually. Pour in a buttered
dish and bake in a moderately quick oven.

SAUCE.—1½ cups of pulverized sugar, ⅔ cup of butter. Beat until
thoroughly light; then add a pint of red raspberries or strawberries and
beat all together. The hot pudding immediately dissolves the same.

                                                       M. B. Robertson.


                             Baked Rhubarb.

Butter a baking dish, cover the bottom with bread crumbs (stale), then a
layer of rhubarb cut in thin slices, cover this very thickly with sugar,
then bread crumbs, put over this bits of butter, then another layer of
rhubarb and so on, until the pan is full, having last layer of bread
crumbs. Bake the pudding in a slow oven for an hour until the rhubarb is
thoroughly cooked and the top brown.

                                                      Mrs. J. C. Stone.


                            Cottage Pudding.

1 pint of flour, 1 heaping teaspoonful of baking powder, 1 cup of sugar,
1 cup of sweet milk, 1 egg, ½ cup of butter, (melted). Bake 45 minutes
in a moderate oven.

SAUCE for pudding. ½ cup of butter, 1 cup of sugar, 1 egg, beat all
together ½ hour, just before serving add 1 teaspoonful vanilla and two
tablespoonsful of boiling water.


                             Rice Pudding.

2 quarts of new milk, 5 tablespoonsful of rice (uncooked), 5
tablespoonsful of sugar, ½ teaspoonful of salt. Cook on the back of the
stove six hours, stirring occasionally, then set in the oven to brown on
top.

                                                      Mrs. J. C. Stone.


                            Duchess Pudding.

1 can of grated pineapple, ¾ pint of tapioca, juice of 2 lemons, whites
of 2 eggs. Soak tapioca over night in cold water enough to cover, in the
morning cover with hot water, cook until perfectly clear, stirring
constantly about 1 hour, adding sugar and lemon the last half hour. When
taken from the fire stir in the beaten whites of 6 eggs; and when cold
add pineapple. To be eaten with cream, very good in summer.


                             Date Pudding.

1 pound of dates, remove stones.

BATTER.—1 cup of sugar, 3 tablespoonsful of butter, 2 eggs, 2 cups of
flour, ½ cup of cold water, 1 spoonful of baking powder, alternate
layers, steam 2 hours.

SAUCE.—1 cup of sugar, ½ cup butter creamed together, 2 teaspoonsful of
flour, 1 cup of boiling water, boil till clear, flavor.

                                                               N. E. P.


                              Fig Pudding.

6 ounces of suet, 8 ounces of bread crumbs, 6 ounces of sugar, ¾ pound
of fresh figs chopped, 3 eggs, 1 coffee cupful of milk, ½ wineglassful
of brandy or wine, 1 grated nutmeg, 2 teaspoonsful of baking powder, 1
teaspoonful of salt, mince all very fine and stir the mixture
thoroughly, steam 3 hours, steam pan should be firmly closed.


                           Fig Pudding Sauce.

½ cupful of butter, 1 cupful of sugar, white of 1 egg, a little vanilla,
2 tablespoonsful of wine or brandy, ½ wineglass of boiling water. Beat
the butter and sugar for about 15 minutes, then add the flavoring. Just
before sending to the table, add the egg beaten to a froth and stir in
the boiling water, beating it to a foam, or it may be flavored with
brandy or wine, without the vanilla, or use one lemon, only, all the
juice and half the grated peel, and one teaspoonful of grated nutmeg,
leaving out all the wine and brandy.


                           Gelatine Pudding.

Separate the yolks of 4 eggs, with the yolks make a boiled custard with
a pint of milk and sugar to taste. Put ⅓ box of Coxe’s gelatine to soak
a few minutes in a little cold water, then dissolve in ¾ cup of boiling
water. When the custard has cooled add the gelatine water and whites of
the eggs that have been beaten stiff. Put in a mold and serve cold with
cream.

                                                               K. E. R.


                         Baked Indian Pudding.

Heat 1 pint of sweet milk, when scalding hot stir in 2 cups of corn meal
to make a thin mush. Cool. Beat 2 eggs with 1 cup of sugar and flavor
with nutmeg and ginger or cinnamon. Stir into mush while warm, and add
another pint of milk. Add a small piece of butter and ½ cup of raisins
if desired.

                                                 Mrs. Seymour H. Jones.


                             Jelly Pudding.

1 teacup of butter, 1½ teacups of white sugar, 1 teacup of cream, 3
eggs, 4 tablespoonsful of jelly. Cream the butter and sugar, beat the
eggs light, then add alternately the other ingredients. Bake in a
pudding dish lined with puff, paste or slices of cake. The cake is
better.

                                                       W. B. Robertson.


                            John’s Delight.

2 cups of stale bread, chopped fine, ½ cup (large) of chopped suet, ½
cup of molasses, 1 egg, 1 cup of chopped raisins, ½ cup of currants, 1
cup of sweet milk with ½ teaspoonful of soda dissolved in it, ½ nutmeg,
2 teaspoonsful of cinnamon, a pinch of salt, ½ cup of corn meal. Boil 3
hours in pudding boiler. Serve with foaming sauce.

                                                               M. A. S.


                             Lemon Pudding.

6 eggs beaten separately. Stir into the yolks 1 pint of sugar, 1½
tablespoonsful of melted butter. Beat this thoroughly, then stir into
this the beaten whites, adding the juice of 2 large lemons and the
grated rind of 1 lemon. Lastly add 1 pint of milk and a pinch of salt.
Bake in a moderate oven from twenty minutes to a half hour. If baked too
long it will curdle. To be eaten cold. Serve with hot toasted crackers
and cheese.

                                                     Mrs. Wm. D. Eaton.


                       Orange Marmalade Pudding.

1½ cupsful of flour, ½ cupful of butter, 2 eggs, ½ teaspoonful baking
powder. Beat butter and sugar together, beat eggs separately, mix all
together, steam 2½ hours. Melt marmalade and pour over while hot.

                                                               K. E. R.


                          Peach or Apple Puff.

A heaping cupful of chopped fruit (if it be apple, it must be a variety
that cooks quickly). ¾ cup of powdered sugar, whites of 5 eggs, mix
fruit and sugar, then add the whites of eggs, beaten very light. Bake
about 15 minutes in quick oven. Serve with cream.

                                                               M. G. M.


                             Prune Pudding.

½ pound of prunes, ½ cup of granulated sugar, 3 eggs, stew the prunes
until they will wash fine, remove pits, stir in sugar. Beat the whites
of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix with prunes, bake 30 minutes. Make
boiled custard with the yolks of eggs, flavor with vanilla and serve
with pudding. To be eaten cold.

                                                        Mrs. E. E. Gay.


                             Prune Pudding.

¾ pound of prunes, stewed until very soft, set aside to cool, seed them
and chop meat remaining very fine. Beat the whites of 5 eggs to a stiff
froth, add ½ tumblerful of granulated sugar, stir carefully eggs, sugar
and prune meat together. Put in a buttered baking dish and bake 20
minutes, or until brown on top. Serve hot, with a sauce of cold whipped
cream.

                                                     Mrs. F. P. Carper.


                             Sago Pudding.

Boil 1 cupful of sago in a quart of milk until very thick, take off the
fire and let cool a little, beat three eggs very light, and add them
with a large tablespoonful of sugar and butter. Bake in a pan with hot
water in oven until brown. To be eaten cold with cream sauce.


                             Suet Pudding.

1 cupful of suet, 1 cupful of molasses, 1½ cupsful of sour cream or
milk, 3 cupsful of flour, 1½ teaspoonsful of soda, 1½ cup raisins, steam
3 hours.

SAUCE.—2 cupsful of sugar, ½ cupful of butter, beat to a cream, yolks
of 2 eggs well beaten, wineglassful of Sherry, then add whites of eggs
beaten light and wineglassful of boiling water.

                                                               K. E. R.


                             Suet Pudding.

1 cupful of suet (chopped fine), 1 cupful of Orleans molasses, 1 cupful
of sweet milk, 1 cupful of fruit, (currants and raisins), 3 small
cupsful of flour, 1 teaspoonful of soda, mix soda with molasses, beating
thoroughly, then add suet, next milk, then flour and lastly fruit. Steam
two hours.

                                                     Mrs. W. G. Mercer.


                             Suet Pudding.

1 cupful of suet, 1 cupful of molasses, (thick black molasses), 1½
cupsful of sour milk, 3 cupsful of flour, 1½ teaspoonsful of soda, 1½
cupsful of seeded raisins. Steam 3 or 4 hours and eat with hard sauce.

HARD SAUCE.—Work to a cream 4 heaping tablespoonsful of powdered sugar,
1 tablespoonful of butter, add juice of a medium sized lemon or a little
sherry wine.

                                                    Mrs. C. P. Squires.


                             Suet Pudding.

2 cupsful of chopped bread, ½ cupful of chopped suet, ½ cupful of
molasses, 1 egg, 1 cupful of raisins seeded, 1 cupful sweet milk, ½
teaspoonful of soda dissolved in milk, ½ teaspoonful of cloves, 1
teaspoonful of cinnamon, 1 pinch of mace and salt. Pour in mould and
steam two hours.

SAUCE.—Beat ½ cupful of butter and 1 cupful of sugar to a cream. Just
before serving add 1 cupful of boiling water.

                                                    Mrs. D. W. Peasley.


                         Gerolts Suet Pudding.

1 cupful of stoned raisins, 1 cupful of currants, 4 apples, ½ pound of
suet, all chopped very fine. 4 cupsful of sifted bread crumbs, the yolks
of 4 eggs, the grated rind of 1 lemon, pinch of salt, whites of the eggs
beaten very light. 4 tablespoonsful of sugar and one glassful of brandy.
Steam four hours in a mold. Serve with wine sauce.

                                                     Mrs. Wm. D. Eaton.


                             Snow Pudding.

In ½ teacupful of cold water, put ½ package of gelatine and let it stand
1 hour. Over this pour a pint of boiling water, add 2 teacupsful of
sugar and juice of a large lemon. Set aside, and when cool (but not
cold) mix in whites of 5 eggs and beat the whole to a stiff froth. For a
custard to be served separately and poured over pudding, take 1 egg
entire and yolks of 3 others, 1 pint of milk and 1 teacupful of sugar.

                                                      Mrs. A. N. Duffy.


                            Sponge Pudding.

¼ cupful of butter, ½ cupful of flour, 1 pint of boiled milk, 5 eggs and
sugar to taste. Mix together sugar and flour, wet with a little cold
milk. Stir into the pint of milk when it’s boiling, cook until it
thickens and is smooth, add butter and stir in the well beaten yolks.
When this is cold add the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Bake
in cups or pudding dish, in a pan of boiling water in a hot oven. To be
eaten with a rich sauce.

                                                               K. E. R.


                           Victoria Pudding.

Make a custard with 5 well beaten eggs, ½ pint of cream, same of milk,
add ¾ ounce of gelatine that has been dissolved, flavor with vanilla.
When cold stir in 2 dessert spoonsful of sherry or brandy, fill bottom
of pudding mold with custard, then a layer of sponge cake with jam
between, then the rest of the custard. Let it get cold and serve.

                                                               K. E. R.


                             Pudding Sauce.

Cream, ½ cupful of butter and as much powdered sugar as you can to have
it very light. Add the yolks of 2 eggs beaten well, then the beaten
whites. This can be set aside in a moderately cool place, and just
before sending to the table add a wineglassful of sherry very slowly,
stirring all the while, and lastly, very slowly as much boiling water as
will make it the consistency of rich custard.

                                                 Mrs. Wallace Campbell.


                             Rose Meringue.

Stir in 1 quart of milk (simmering) the yolks of 4 eggs beaten with 4
tablespoonsful of sugar, and then 2 tablespoonsful of corn starch. Boil
till it begins to thicken; add a little vanilla when cool. Mould in long
narrow glasses. Fill up with the whites of 2 eggs beaten stiff, with ½
cupful each of powdered sugar and red jelly.

                                                               M. G. M.


                              Stewed Figs.

¾ pound of dried figs, washed and torn in 4 parts, ¼ pound of brown
sugar, 3 tablespoonful of brandy, boiling water to cover the figs in a
sauce pan. Pour the boiling water on the figs and boil 10 minutes; add
the sugar and boil slowly for ½ hour. When cold, stir in the brandy
thoroughly. Serve very cold with whipped cream piled on top, with
crackers.

                                                               M. G. M.


                            Strawberry Fool.

1 pint of strawberry preserve, ½ box of gelatine, 1 lemon, ½ cupful of
cold water, 1 cupful of boiling water. Soak the gelatine in the cold
water and dissolve in the boiling water, add the strawberries and juice
of lemon, mold in individual molds, being careful not to break the
berries. When cold, turn out and cover each with a heaping tablespoonful
of whipped cream, 1 cupful of cream, ¼ cupful of sugar, flavor if you
like.

                                                      M. W. MacFarland.


                            Caramel Custard.

Make a soft boiled custard of 1 pint sweet milk, 2 eggs, a small
tablespoonful of corn starch and a little salt. Melt ½ cupful of sugar
in a stew pan on stove. When the sugar is of a golden-brown color, stir
this into the hot custard and beat till smooth.

                                                 Mrs. Seymour H. Jones.


                              Fruit Salad.

1 box of Coxe’s gelatine, 1 can of sliced pine apple, juice of 5 lemons,
8 oranges, 6 bananas, 3 cupsful of granulated sugar, 1 pint of hot
water, ½ the juice out of the can of pine apple. Dissolve the gelatine
in the hot water and stir until clear, pour on fruit while hot, stir
carefully and thoroughly, put in a dish and stand on ice over night.

                                                               H. E. P.


                                Junket.

1 pint of new milk, warmed to 98 degrees, 1 dessert-spoonful of sugar, 1
dessert-spoonful of sherry, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla, 1 dessert-spoonful
of liquid rennet. Pour into molds, let stand, sprinkle nutmeg on the top
and serve with cream and sugar.

                                                               M. A. S.


                           Pine Apple Cream.

1 can grated pine apple, put on stove with 1 cup of sugar, cook until
soft; ½ box of Coxe’s gelatine in a cup, fill cup with water, put in
basin on back of stove and dissolve slowly. Whip 1 pint of cream stiff.
Beat the pineapple and gelatine, when nearly cold, to a froth, stir in
the whipped cream and turn into a mold.

                                                    Mrs. H. W. Perkins.


                             Apricot Jelly.

1 ounce of gelatine, ½ pint of dried apricots. Soak the gelatine in a
pint of cold water. Put the apricots into one quart of cold water, place
them on the back of the stove and let them heat till soft, then let them
cook without stirring. When all the pieces are soft add 2 cupsful of
sugar and boil 2 minutes without stirring. Then carefully place the
pieces of apricot in the mold. Pour the dissolved gelatine into the
juice, let it boil. Then strain onto the apricots and cool. Serve with
whipped cream.

                                                               M. A. S.


                           Strawberry Jelly.

3 pints of strawberries, 1 box gelatine, 1 pint of sugar, 1 pint of
boiling water, 1 pint of cold water, juice of 1 lemon. Soak gelatine in
cold water 2 hours. Mash berries with sugar and let stand 2 hours. Pour
boiling water on fruit and sugar. Press out the juice and add to lemon
juice and gelatine. Strain through a napkin and mold. Serve with ice
cream or whipped cream.

                                                               S. M. W.


                             Coffee Jelly.

½ box of Plymouth Rock gelatine, soak the gelatine in 1 cup of cold
strong coffee ½ hour, add 1 teacupful of sugar, 1 pint of boiling water.
Strain and let harden on ice. Cut in cubes and serve with whipped cream.

                                                 Mrs. Seymour H. Jones.


                           Queen of Puddings.

1 pint of fine bread crumbs, 1 quart of milk, 1 cup of raisins, 1 cup of
sugar, yolks of 4 eggs beaten well, grated rind of 1 lemon, piece of
butter size of an egg. Bake until done, but not watery. Whip whites of
the eggs stiff, beating in a teacupful of sugar in which has been
stirred the juice of the lemon. Spread on the pudding a layer of jelly
or fruit, spread the whites on top of this, and brown nicely in the
oven.

                                                      Mrs. C. M. Levey.


                            Cherry Dessert.

Take 1 pint canned cherries, dissolve 1 teaspoonful of powdered
gelatine, add to cherries. Pour in mold, set on ice. Serve cold with
whipped cream.

                                                    Mrs. H. W. Perkins.


                             Velvet Cream.

1½ pints of sweet cream, 4 heaping tablespoonsful of powdered sugar,
whites of 4 eggs, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla. Scald the cream and pour
over the whites of egg and sugar. Mix thoroughly and strain into cups.
Bake until firm, in a slow oven, in a pan of water. Cover with heavy
paper as soon as put in oven. Do not beat whites of eggs. This will fill
about 6 teacups.

                                                      Mrs. A. N. Duffy.

[Illustration: decorative medallion]

                 *        *        *        *        *

                       THE SCHIER TAILORING CO.,
                   Tailors, Clothiers and Furnishers,

                       202 and 204 Jefferson St.,
                           BURLINGTON, IOWA.

                 *        *        *        *        *

                              JOHN BOESCH,
                         Dry Goods and Cloaks,
                        _ONE PRICE CASH STORE_.

                   No. 420 and 422 Jefferson Street.

       Examine our Goods and Prices before making your Purchases

                 *        *        *        *        *

                                ALL THE
                        Leading Fashion Journals
                            ——FOR SALE AT——
                          J. J. CURRAN & CO.,
                     Cor. Fourth and Jefferson Sts.

                 *        *        *        *        *

                          GNAHN’S BOOK STORE.
                          _FIRST-CLASS GOODS._
                  BEAUTIFUL PICTURES, FINE ART GOODS.
                         STOCK ALWAYS COMPLETE.
                          GNAHN’S BOOK STORE.

                 *        *        *        *        *




                                 ICES.


                               Lemon Ice.

To 1 pint of lemon juice, add 1 quart of sugar and 1 quart of water, in
which the rind of the lemon has been allowed to stand until highly
flavored, when partly frozen add the whites of 4 eggs beaten to a stiff
froth.

                                                    Mrs. H. W. Perkins.


                               Lemon Ice.

Make a rich sweet lemonade, strain into the freezer. Then add the beaten
whites of 2 eggs to each quart of the lemonade after it is partly
frozen. Very good and quickly made.

                                                      Mrs. R. R. Crapo.


                           Coffee Ice Cream.

Required: 1 quart of best cream, 1½ pint of strong Mocha coffee, 14
ounces white pulverized sugar, yelks of 8 eggs. Mix these ingredients in
a porcelain-lined kettle and place on fire to thicken. Rub through hair
sieve, put into freezer and freeze.

                                                       Abbie Mac Flinn.


                            Pine-Apple Ice.

1 pint can of grated pineapple, ¾ pound of sugar, 1 quart of water. When
half frozen add the beaten whites of 2 eggs.

                                                               M. P. S.


                             Mousse Glace.

1 quart of cream, whipped, 2 cupsful of granulated sugar, ½ cupful of
wine. Place in a mold and freeze five hours.

                                                               M. P. S.


                         Strawberry Water Ice.

1 quart of strawberries, 1 quart of water, 1 pound of sugar, juice of 2
lemons, add sugar and lemon juice to the strawberries, mash them and
stand aside one hour, then strain through a fine sieve, add the water
and turn into the freezer to freeze.

                                                    Mrs. W. J. Pollock.


                             Milk Sherbet.

1 quart of milk, 1 pint of sugar, juice of 4 lemons. Let the milk and
sugar be partially frozen, then strain into the milk the juice of the
lemons.

                                                     Frances H. Potter.


                            Biscuit Glaces.

1 quart of cream, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla, yolks of 6 eggs, ¼
teaspoonful of salt, ½ pound of sugar, 1 quill of maraschino. Put half
of the cream on to boil. Beat sugar and yolks of eggs together until
very, very light, then stir them into boiling cream, and stir over fire
until it begins to thicken. Take from fire and put aside to cool, when
cold add vanilla and maraschino and freeze in usual manner, whip the
remaining pint of cream to a stiff froth, and stir into the frozen
mixture.

                                                     Frances H. Potter.


                             Milk Sherbet.

Take 2 cupsful of fruit juice, (grated pineapple, orange, raspberry or
strawberry), 2 cupsful of sugar, 2 cupsful of water, and 2 cupsful of
milk, adding milk last. Freeze till hard.

                                                 Mrs. Seymour H. Jones.


                 *        *        *        *        *

                          DRAKE HARDWARE CO.,
                               WHOLESALE,
                           BURLINGTON, IOWA.

                 *        *        *        *        *

    Ices made according to receipts in this book should be frozen in
                         The Lightning Freezer.
                   ASK YOU HARDWARE DEALER FOR THEM.

                 *        *        *        *        *




                           CAKE AND COOKIES.


                            BANBERRY TARTS.

1 bowl of raisins, 1 cup of sugar, 1 lemon, 1 egg, 1 Boston cracker
(rolled), 1 tablespoonful of water, grate rind of lemon, use juice, chop
pulp with raisins.

                                                     Frances H. Potter.


                                HERMITS.

1¼ cups light brown sugar, ⅔ a cup of butter, 2 eggs, 3 tablespoonsful
of milk, 1 teaspoonful each of soda, cinnamon and nutmeg, soda in the
milk, 1 cup of raisins seeded and chopped. Flour enough to make them
soft as you can roll them out.

                                                     Frances H. Potter.


                                COOKIES.

⅔ a teacupful of butter, 1 coffee-cupful of sugar, 2 beaten eggs, 2
tablespoonsful of milk, 2 teaspoonsful of baking powder, 2 teaspoonsful
of vanilla. Mix with flour as soft as can be well rolled out.

                                                     Mrs. W. G. Mercer.


                           CHOCOLATE COOKIES.

2½ cupfuls of sugar, 1 cupful of butter, ½ cupful of hot water, 1
heaping cupful of grated chocolate, 2 eggs, 3 teaspoonsful of baking
powder, flour to make stiff enough to drop from a spoon. Drop in a
greased pan and bake in a quick oven.

                                                     Mrs. L. L. Arnold.


                             CLUB COOKIES.

1 cupful of butter, 2 cupsful of sugar, 3 cupsful of flour, 4 eggs, 1
teaspoonful baking powder. Cream the sugar and butter, add the flour
with baking powder sifted in and then add eggs well beaten. Season
highly with nutmeg. Take a teaspoonful of the dough, form into a ball by
rolling in the hands and press as thin as possible. Bake in a quick
oven.

                                                             M. W. McF.


                          JOE SOAN’S COOKIES.

4 cupsful of sugar, 3 cupsful of butter, 8 cupsful (scant) of flour, 1
large cupful sour cream, 5 eggs, 1 teaspoonful of soda. Drop them in
very small spoonsful on pan instead of rolling.


                                COOKIES.

4½ cupsful of flour, 1½ cupsful of sugar, ½ cupful of butter, 2 eggs,
teaspoonful of soda and sour milk enough to make a soft dough.


                              CRISP CAKES.

1 scant cupful of butter, 2 cupsful of sugar ¼ cupful of cold water, ¼
cupful whisky, 2 eggs, 1½ teaspoonsful baking powder, 1 teaspoonful
vanilla, flour to make a stiff dough. Roll as thin as a wafer and cut
out with a small biscuit cutter. Bake in a quick oven on an inverted
pan. This keeps the bottom from getting too brown.

                                                     Mrs. Wm. D. Eaton.


                            GINGER COOKIES.

1 cupful of Orleans molasses, 1 cupful of sugar, 1 cupful of butter and
lard mixed, 1 dessert spoonful of ginger, 1 dessert spoonful of soda.
Mix soda with flour and then mix all together. Roll thin, cut into forms
and bake in a quick oven.

                                                     Mrs. W. G. Mercer.


                             GINGER SNAPS.

1 cupful of molasses, 1 cupful of butter, 1 cupful of sugar, 1
tablespoonful of ginger, 2 eggs. Put molasses and butter on the stove
and when it comes to a boil take from the fire and add the sugar and
ginger. When well mixed add the eggs, which have been well beaten, and
then add flour enough to roll out. Have tin sheets. Put a small piece of
the dough on the tin sheet, roll as thin as a knife blade, cut into
round cakes and bake in a quick oven.

                                                     Mrs. E. S. Phelps.


                                HERMITS.

3 eggs, 2 cupsful of sugar, 1 cupful of chopped raisins, 1 cupful of
butter, 3 tablespoonsful of sour milk, 1 teaspoonful of cinnamon, 1
teaspoonful of cheese, ½ teaspoonful of nutmeg, ½ teaspoonful of soda.
Add flour, making the dough quite soft.

                                                              Bertha B.


                           HICKORY-NUT CAKES.

Whites of 7 eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 1 pint of pulverized sugar, 8
tablespoonsful of flour and 1 quart of nut kernels. Drop a teaspoonful
at a time on a greased pan and bake in oven.

                                                               L. R. B.


                              NUT COOKIES.

1 pint of nuts, any kind, 1 pint of flour, 1 pint of sugar, 4 eggs, 1
teaspoonful of baking powder, 1 tablespoonful of cinnamon. Drop in
spoonsful a little apart in greased pan and bake in quick oven.

                                                     Mrs. L. L. Arnold.


                              “NOTHINGS.”

3 well-beaten eggs, 1 tablespoonful of sugar, salt and flour enough for
a very stiff dough. Roll and cut into very thin small round cakes and
fry them in lard. When they rise to surface and are turned over they are
done. Drain on a sieve and put two together with jam or jelly between.

                                                            Miss Rhein.


                               NUT CAKES.

½ pound of sugar, whites of 3 eggs. Beat sugar and eggs together to a
stiff froth and add 1 pint nuts and 4 tablespoonsful of flour. Drop on
buttered tins and bake.


                             SCOTCH CAKES.

1 pound of brown sugar, ½ pound of butter, 2 eggs, 1 pound of flour, ½
tablespoonful of cinnamon. To be rolled quite thin.


                           WALNUT MACAROONS.

1 pint of sugar, 1 pint of flour, 1 pint of walnuts, 4 eggs, 2
teaspoonsful of baking powder, cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg to taste.
Drop very small in large pan and bake.

                                                            Miss Rhein.


                             APRICOT CAKE.

¼ cake of chocolate, grated, ½ cup of milk, yolks of 2 eggs. Boil until
thick and then let it cool. 1 tablespoonful of melted butter, ½ cupful
of milk, 1 cupful of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla, 1½ cupsful of
flour and 1 teaspoonful of soda. Put soda in flour. Put stewed apricots
between layers and frosting on top.

                                                     Mrs. W. G. Mercer.


                            BOSTON NUT CAKE.

3 eggs, 2 cupsful of sugar, 1 cupful of butter, 1 cupful of milk, 4
cupsful of flour, 2 teaspoonsful of baking powder, 1 large cup of
hickory-nut kernels, 1 large cup of raisins.

                                                            Miss Rhein.


                             CARAMEL CAKE.

1 cupful of butter, 2 cupsful of sugar, 3 small cupsful of flour, whites
of 8 eggs, 1 cupful of milk, 2 teaspoonsful of baking powder. Flavor
with vanilla. Bake in layers.

Filling for Same.—2 cupsful of dark brown sugar, 1 cupful of cream.
Boil together until the mixture becomes sticky, but not candy. Spread
between layers.

                                                               K. E. R.


                               CUP CAKE.

1 cupful of butter, 2 cupsful of sugar, 2½ cupsful of flour, 4 eggs, ½
cupful of sweet milk, 1 small nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful of baking powder.
Mix as you would for any cake. Butter and sugar creamed very light and
the eggs beaten together instead of separately. Bake in small tins or
one large one, as you fancy.

                                                               K. E. R.


                           CARAMEL FROSTING.

2 cupsful of brown sugar, ½ cupful of butter, ½ cupful of cream. Cook
all together and add a little vanilla before putting on the cake.

                                                    Mrs. C. P. Squires.


                            CHOCOLATE CAKE.

Whites of 6 eggs, 1½ cupsful of sugar, ½ cupful of flour, ½ cupful of
corn starch, ½ cupful of butter, ½ cupful of milk, 1 heaping teaspoonful
of baking powder, or 1 teaspoonful of cream tartar, ½ teaspoonful of
soda.

Frosting.—Whites of 3 eggs, 1½ cupsful of pulverized sugar, 1
teaspoonful of vanilla, 9 tablespoonsful of grated chocolate. Stir eggs
and chocolate together in a bowl over a boiling teakettle until
perfectly smooth, then add sugar and vanilla.


                           French Loaf Cake.

2½ cupsful of powdered sugar, 1½ cupsful of fresh butter, 1 cupful of
milk, 3 eggs, 5 cupsful of flour, 1 wineglassful of wine, 1½ nutmegs, ½
teaspoonful of soda (scant), ½ pound stewed raisins, 2 ounces of citron.
Stir sugar and butter to a cream, then add part of the flour with the
milk, a little warm, and the beaten yolks of the eggs. Then add with the
rest of the flour the whites of eggs, well beaten, the spice, wine and
soda. Mix all thoroughly and add the fruit as you put it in the oven,
stirring in the raisins, dredged with a little of the flour, and putting
the citron, cut into small strips, into the loaves after they are put
into the pans.

                                                               S. S. G.


                              Fruit Cake.

1 pound of butter, 1 pound of sugar, 1 pound of flour, 3 pounds of
raisins, 2½ pounds of currants, 1½ pounds of citron, 1 glass of
preserves, ½ teacupful of molasses, 1 wineglassful of brandy or wine,
tablespoonful each of cinnamon, allspice and cloves, and 3 teaspoonsful
of baking powder.


                              Ginger Cake.

¼ cupful of butter, ½ cupful brown sugar, ½ cupful of molasses, ½ cupful
of boiling water poured onto 1 even teaspoonful of soda, 1 egg, 1
heaping teaspoonful of ginger, flour for a thin batter. Bake in a slow
oven.

                                                    Mrs. H. C. Schramm.


                           Hickory Nut Cake.

Whites of 9 eggs, 5 cupsful of flour, 1 cupful of butter, 3 cupsful of
sugar, 1 cupful of milk, 2 teaspoonsful of baking powder, 1 teaspoonful
of vanilla or 2 tablespoonsful of brandy, 1 pint of nuts.

                                                               E. G. R.


                         Hot Water Sponge Cake.

1½ cupsful of sugar, 1½ cupsful of flour, 3 eggs, ⅔ cupful of boiling
water, 2 teaspoonsful of baking powder; flavor with lemon. The water is
added the last thing.

                                                     Mrs. W. G. Mercer.


                           Hickory Nut Cake.

2 cupsful of sugar, 1 cupful of butter, ⅔ cupful of milk, 3 cupsful of
flour, whites of 6 eggs, 2 teaspoonsful of baking powder, 1 cupful of
fine chopped nut meats.

                                                     Mrs. W. G. Mercer.


                            ICE CREAM CAKE.

2 cupsful of pulverized sugar and 1 cupful of butter well beaten
together, 1 cupful of sweet milk, 3 cupsful of flour, 2 teaspoonsful of
baking powder, whites of 8 eggs beaten stiff. Bake in layers.

FILLING—4 cupsful of sugar and a small cupful of boiling water, let
them boil in a pan until clear and candied, then pour it onto the whites
of 4 eggs, which have already been beaten to a froth. Beat until cold,
flavor with vanilla. Spread between each layer and on top.

                                                               E. G. R.


                            ICE CREAM CAKE.

Make any nice white cake or sponge cake. Bake an inch thick in jelly
pans and let them get perfectly cold. Take 1 pint of thickest sweet
cream, make very sweet with powdered sugar and flavor with vanilla.
Blanche 1 pound of almonds and chop fine, stir into cream and put very
thick between layers.

                                                               E. G. R.


                           MAPLE SUGAR ICING.

For a three-layer cake, take 3 cupsful of maple sugar scraped fine and 1
cupful of cream. Boil till crisp in water. Beat until thick enough to
spread. Add hickory nuts or butter nuts, as desired.

                                                 Mrs. Seymour H. Jones.


                              Sponge Cake.

12 eggs beaten separately, 1 pound of granulated sugar, ½ pound of flour
sifted two or three times, 1 teaspoonful of lemon extract or juice and
grated rind of a lemon. Beat yolks light, add sugar, beat again; add
beaten whites and extract, and lastly flour stirred in very gently until
all covered by the batter. Bake in 2 well greased bread pans filled but
half full, from 45 minutes to an hour.

                                                 Mrs. Wallace Campbell.


                             “MAUD’S” CAKE.

CAKE PART—1½ cupsful of brown sugar, ½ cupful (scant) of butter, 3
eggs, ½ cupful of milk, ½ cupful of flour, then stir in chocolate
custard which is made as follows:

CHOCOLATE CUSTARD—8 tablespoonsful of grated chocolate, 5
tablespoonsful of granulated sugar, ½ cupful of milk. Boil until it
thickens a little, beat until cool, then stir into the cake; add 1½
cupsful of flour and 2 teaspoonsful of baking powder.

ICING—2 cupsful of white sugar and 1 cupful of water, boil until quite
stiff, or till it candies or strings. Have the whites of 2 eggs beaten
stiff, then add syrup, beating constantly. Flavor with vanilla. Bake the
cake in three layers in a moderately hot oven.

                                                        Ella G. Rhoads.


                        NUT CAKE, (Layer Cake).

¾ cupful of butter, 2 cupsful of sugar, 1 cupful of milk, 1 cupful of
corn starch, 2 cupsful of flour, 1½ teaspoonsful of baking powder. Mix
corn starch, flour and baking powder together, add to the butter and
sugar, alternately with the milk; lastly add the whites of 7 eggs.

FILLING—Whites of 3 eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 1 large cupful of
granulated, or confectioners’ A sugar moistened with 4 tablespoonsful of
hot water. Boil sugar and water briskly until it “ropes” or threads when
dropped from the end of the spoon. Then pour the boiling syrup upon the
beaten eggs in a small stream, beating hard all the time. Add cupful of
hickory nut meats chopped fine.


                       SPONGE CAKE, (Hot Water).

4 eggs, 1½ cupsful of sugar, 2 cupsful of flour, 1 cupful of boiling
water, 1 teaspoonful of soda, 2 cream tartars. Beat eggs, sugar and
flour together and add hot water last.


                             GINGER BREAD.

2 tablespoonsful of butter, 2 tablespoonsful of sugar, 1 cupful of N. O.
molasses, 1 cupful of butter milk, 1 teaspoonful soda in milk, 1
teaspoonful each of ginger and salt, 2 tablespoonsful of cinnamon, scant
½ teaspoonful of cloves, 3 cupsful of flour.


                              RIBBON CAKE.

2½ cupsful of sugar, 1 of butter, 1 of sweet milk, teaspoonful of cream
tartar, ½ teaspoonful of soda, 4 cupsful of flour, 4 eggs. Reserve a
third of this mixture and bake the rest in 2 tins of the same size. Add
to the third reserved, 1 cupful of seeded raisins, ¼ pound of citron, a
cupful of currants, 2 tablespoonsful of molasses, teaspoonful each of
all kinds of spice; bake in a tin the same size as other loaves; put the
three loaves together with a little icing, placing the fruit layer in
the middle. Frost the top and sides.

                                                         Mrs. R. Crapo.


                              SPICE CAKE.

1 scant cupful of butter, 1½ cupsful of sugar, 3 eggs beaten separately,
1 cupful of milk, 3 cupsful of flour, 1 teaspoonful of cream tartar, ½
teaspoonful of soda. Mace, cinnamon and cloves, 1 teaspoonful of
vanilla.

                                                   Mrs. G. V. Phillips.


                              ORANGE CAKE.

Beat the yolks of 12 eggs with 1 pound of pulverized sugar, grate the
peel of 1 orange and 1 lemon, add the juice of both, then add the beaten
whites of 8 eggs and ½ pound sifted flour.

ICING—To the beaten whites of 2 eggs add a little confectioners’ sugar,
grate the peel of 1 large orange, adding the juice of same alternately
with sugar until quite stiff. It takes nearly 1½ pounds of sugar.

                                                     Frances H. Potter.


                             “Snow Flake.”

1 cupful of butter, 1 cupful of milk, 1 cupful of corn starch, 1½ cupful
of sugar, 2 cupsful of flour, 3 spoonsful of baking powder, whites of 4
eggs. This makes two loaf cakes.

                                                            Miss Rhein.


                 *        *        *        *        *

                               H. RANKE.

                     Dealer in Hats, Caps and Furs
                         315 Jefferson Street,
                           BURLINGTON, IOWA.

                 *        *        *        *        *

                        THE BURLINGTON HAWK-EYE,
                          FOUNDED JUNE, 1839.

                 Daily, 15 cents per week, by carrier.
                    Weekly, $1.00 per year, by mail.
                    Sunday, $2.00 per year, by mail.

Send The Hawk-Eye (Daily, Sunday or Weekly), to your relatives or
friends abroad, it helps to advertise Burlington and will prove a
welcome visitor to the recipient.

                                          THE HAWK-EYE CO., Publishers.

                 *        *        *        *        *

For the Best Goods made in Burlington you will find at my place every
day. These are fresh and made by skilled labor. My motto is “how good
and not how cheap.” Every pound of goods guaranteed pure, made every day
of the best material. Special sale every day.

                            JAS. W. SMITHER,
                                                  313 Jefferson Street.

                 *        *        *        *        *




                           JELLIES AND JAMS.


                             Orange Jelly.

12 fine oranges, 1 package of Coxe’s gelatine dissolved in 1 cupful of
cold water, 3 cupsful of fine sugar, juice of oranges grated rind of 3,
2 cupsful of boiling water, ½ teaspoonful of cinnamon, soak gelatine 3
hours in water, cut from top of orange small round piece, clean out all
pulp carefully, put empty orange skins in cold water, strain juice, stir
until thick, add spice, pour boiling water upon gelatine, stir over fire
until well dissolved, add juice and sugar, stir all together, strain
into pitcher, when clear fill oranges.


                           Orange Marmalade.

Take equal weights of oranges and sugar, (white), grate the yellow rind
from ¼ of the oranges, cut all the fruit in halves, take out the
pulp—throwing away the rinds and seeds. Drain off all of the juice you
can, and put it on to boil with the sugar. Let it come to a boil, skim
it and let it simmer for 15 minutes, then put in the pulp and grated
rind and boil 15 minutes longer. Put in jelly tumblers.

                                                      Mrs. E. L. Stone.


                             Raspberry Jam.

1 pint of raspberries, 1 pint of white currant juice, 1 pint of sugar,
cook all together and boil down to the consistency of jam, it is better
to make a little at a time.

                                                         Ella G. Roads.


                           Calves Foot Jelly.

Take 4 fresh well cleaned calves feet, put in 3 quarts of cold water.
Bring to a gentle boil, skim well, draw pan to side of stove covered,
let boil gently 5 hours, strain off stock through hair sieve, set in a
cold place till next day when it should be a stiff jelly. Scrape off all
fat, take a piece of muslin dipped in hot water scrape all remaining
fat. Put stock in perfectly clean stew pan, with 1 pound of loaf sugar,
juice of 5 large lemons, chopped peeling of same, piece of cinnamon two
inches long, 8 cloves, 8 whites of eggs whipped stiff. Bring mixture
gently to boil, simmer for 15 minutes, strain through jelly bag, add 2
wine-glassesful of brandy, let in mold till stiff. Turn out and use.

                                                      Mrs. J. A. Gregg.

[Illustration: decorative medallion]


                 *        *        *        *        *

                           WM. IHRER & SONS,

                     Wholesale and Retail Grocers,

                     HEADQUARTERS FOR THE FOLLOWING
                   LEADING BRANDS OF FINE CONDIMENTS:

S. Rae & Co’s Fine Olive Oil; P. Emillien & Co., Bordeaux, France, Fine
French Fruits and Vegetables: Cross & Blackwell’s Pickles, Sauces,
Relishes, Etc.: J. E. Burns & Co’s Fine Spices; Sprague, Warner & Co’s
Richeliu Brand of Canned Fruits and Vegetables; Horton Cato M’f’g Co’s
Royal Salad Dressing; H. J. Heinz & Co’s Pickles, Preserves and Mince
Meats; G. A Hoflieferant’s Fine Wiesbaden Preserves, Fruits, Etc.

                      ALL KINDS OF DRESSED POULTRY

                   CHOICE GAME and FISH A SPECIALTY.

            We have the Finest Line of Fancy Groceries, Fine
                   Teas, Coffees, Etc., in the City.

                 *        *        *        *        *

            F. L. UNTERKIRCHER.       GEO. L. UNTERKIRCHER.

                       P. F. UNTERKIRCHER & SONS,

                   Livery and Furnishing Undertakers,

                 LIVERY STABLE,             UNDERTAKING,
           206 to 210 Washington St.   212 Washington Street.

                           BURLINGTON, IOWA.

                 *        *        *        *        *

                              E. S. PHELPS

          _FIRE._         }           { SURETY ON BONDS.
          _LIFE._         } INSURANCE {
          _ACCIDENT._     }           { EMPLOYERS LIABILITY.

                 Telephone 16.       321½ Jefferson St.

                 *        *        *        *        *

                             M. A. FRAWLEY,
                             NOTARY PUBLIC.
                   Insurance, Real Estate and Loans,
                         321½ Jefferson Street,
                Telephone No. 16.      BURLINGTON, IOWA.

    Buy, Sell, and Manage Property on Commission. Collect Rents and
         Pay Taxes. Care and Management of Property Solicited.

                 *        *        *        *        *

                     M. H. DAVIS CONFECTIONERY CO.,
                          ——MANUFACTURERS OF——
                    Fine Candies, Ice Cream and Ices

                  Also Bakers of Fine Home Made Goods,

                         406 Jefferson Street.

            A Full Assortment of Cut Flowers Received Daily.

                 *        *        *        *        *

                  FANCY, CHOICE AND STANDARD GROCERIES
                  WHICH INDICATE THREE GRADES OF GOODS

               My First Grade: NOTHING BETTER TO BE HAD.
               Second Grade: SOLD BY MANY OTHERS AS BEST.
                Third Grade: EQUALS ANY STANDARD GOODS.

      Prompt and Special Attention given to all Telephone Orders.

                             W. J. DONAHUE,
              Telephone 36        323 South Eighth Street

                 *        *        *        *        *




                               BEVERAGES.


                          Blackberry Cordial.

To 1 gallon of pressed juice of new fruit, put 2 ounces of cinnamon, 2
ounces of cloves, two ounces of mace. To each pint of juice put ½ pound
of loaf sugar. Boil twenty minutes, strain, and add to each pint of
juice 1 wine-glassful of brandy.

                                                               L. R. B.


                             Cherry Bounce.

¾ pound of granulated sugar to 1 pound of late cherries. Fill 5 gallon
demijohn with alternate layers of cherries and sugar, cover with best
whiskey and let it stand one year. Then take it off the fruit and
bottle.

                                                    Mrs. D. W. Peasley.


                           Raspberry Vinegar.

                           A SUMMER BEVERAGE.

Put into a jar 2 quarts of raspberries, and pour over them a quart of
good vinegar. Let stand 24 hours, strain it well; pour this liquid over
2 more quarts of berries, let stand again 24 hours; strain it through a
jelly bag. Allow ¾ pound of good white granulated sugar to every pint of
juice, stir well, put into a stone jar and cover closely. Put it in a
kettle of boiling water for one hour, strain, and bottle, seal, and it
is ready for use the same summer. One teaspoonful to a glass of cold
water is the way to prepare it for a beverage.

                                                      Mrs. R. R. Crapo.




                             CONFECTIONERY.


Granulated sugar is preferable. Candy should not be stirred while
boiling. Cream tartar should not be added until syrup begins to boil.
Butter should be put in when candy is almost done. Flavors are more
delicate when not boiled in candy, but added afterward.

                                                       Abbie Mac Flinn.


                         French Vanilla Cream.

Break into a bowl the white of one egg, add to it an equal quantity of
cold water and stir in XXX powdered sugar until it makes a cream stiff
enough to mould. Flavor with vanilla and mould in any shape desired.
This cream is the foundation of all French creams. Peppermint and
wintergreen essence can be used instead of vanilla.

                                                               E. B. N.


                        Candied Fruits and Nuts.

1 cupful of granulated sugar, 4 cupsful of water. Boil together until
crisp when tried in cold water. Boil slowly and never stir. Set the
kettle in a pan of hot water while using to delay crystalizing. Take on
the end of a long pin, or string or thread, sections of oranges, stoned
cherries, or other fruits or halves of walnuts, Brazilian nuts, etc.,
dip into the syrup until thoroughly coated and let harden on oiled
paper.

                                                               M. G. M.


                         French Cream Cherries.

Make a small round ball of French cream, cut a strip of citron the size
of a cherry stem and put the ball of cream upon one end of it. Take a
candied cherry, cut in two, and put one half on each side of the stem on
the cream ball.

                                                               E. B. N.


                           Chocolate Creams.

Take French cream, mould into shape and lay on waxed paper or a marble
slab for 24 hours. Melt chocolate in a double boiler, take a cream on a
fork, drop in the chocolate and roll till well covered. Then slip from
fork to waxed paper, and leave in a cool place to dry.

                                                               E. B. N.


                         English Walnut Creams.

Make French cream as directed above. Have ready some English walnuts.
Make a ball of the cream about the size of a walnut and place a half nut
meat on either side of the ball, pressing them well together. Lay away
for a few hours to dry.

                                                               E. B. N.


                          French Fruit Creams.

Take seeded raisins, currants, figs and citron. Chop fine and pour into
French cream before the sugar is all mixed in. Make into a flat cake
about an inch thick; and cut in oblong pieces, or inch squares. Nuts can
be used in the same way.

                                                               E. B. N.


                            Molasses Candy.

Required—3 cupsful of yellow coffee sugar, 1 cupful of molasses, 1
cupful of water, ½ teaspoonful cream tartar, butter size of a walnut.
Boil until brittle, then turn quickly out on buttered plates. When cool,
pull until white and cut in squares.

                                                       Abbie Mac Flinn.


                            Chocolate Candy.

1 cupful of grated chocolate, 3 cupsful of sugar, 1 cupful of milk,
butter the size of a walnut. Cook for twenty minutes, then add 2
teaspoonsful of vanilla. After taking from stove beat until smooth. Pour
out in tins. When cold, cut in squares.

                                                      Miss Maud Mercer.


                          Chocolate Caramels.

Take 1 cupful of sugar, ½ a cupful of molasses and ½ a cupful of milk.
Boil fifteen minutes. Have ready 1 even dessert spoonful of flour and an
equal quantity of butter stirred together and beaten to a cream. Add
this to boiling mixture and boil five minutes more. Then put in ¼ cake
of chocolate grated fine and boil the whole until thick. Pour on
buttered tins.

                                                          Cooking Club.


                              Cream Taffy.

3 cupsful of granulated sugar, ½ cupful of water, ½ cupful of vinegar,
butter size of a walnut. Boil until hard when dropped in cold water, but
do not stir. Remove from fire, add 1 teaspoonful of vanilla and pour
into buttered tins. When cool pull until white and cut with scissors. ¾
cupful of pounded hickory nuts placed in the pan before pouring on the
taffy, gives it a delightful flavor.

                                                        Miss Ritzinger.


                               Nut Candy.

2 cupsful of granulated sugar, 1 cupful of peanuts or mixed hickory and
walnut meats. Pour the sugar into a hot iron skillet and stir constantly
until the sugar is dissolved. Then add the nuts and pour into hot
buttered plates.

                                                    Mrs. D. W. Peasley.


                                Fudges.

¼ cake of baker’s chocolate, grated, 3 cupsful of sugar, 1 cupful of
water, 1 cupful of milk, butter the size of an egg. Mix all ingredients
and boil until stiff, but not brittle when tried in water. Pour into
pans, stirring a little as it cools. Smooth and cut into squares.

                                                               M. G. M.


                           Peppermint Drops.

1 pound of confectioner’s sugar, 6 tablespoonsful of water, 8 drops of
oil of peppermint, scant ¼ teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Put 1
teaspoonful of sugar into a cup, drop onto that the oil of peppermint
and stir up, adding the cream tartar. Boil the rest of the sugar with
the water three minutes, or until it forms a thread at the end of a
spoon. Do not stir the syrup. Remove from fire as soon as done and add
the mixture from the cup. Stir briskly until it turns white and creamy.
Drop from a teaspoon (making rounds any size you wish) onto previously
prepared paper—either waxed paper or what has been rubbed with sweet
oil, or fresh butter, or thick cream. If the candy hardens too much to
drop, put on the fire and stir until it grows thinner, then drop as
before.

                                                       M. B. Robertson.


                              Nut Glaces.

Take out the kernels of assorted nuts in as good shape as possible. Make
a syrup of 1 pint of granulated sugar and 1 pint of water. Dip in the
nuts, a few at a time, take out quickly with a fork and lay on a
buttered pan to harden.

                                                       Abbie Mac Flinn.


                             Butter Taffy.

2 cupsful of sugar, white or brown, ¾ cupful of vinegar, ½ cupful of
butter. Boil until brittle when tested in water. Pour into buttered
pans.

                                                               E. B. N.


                         Champaign Sugar Candy.

3 pints of sugar, ½ pint each of vinegar and water, 1 tablespoonful of
butter added when almost done boiling. Boil about twenty minutes, or
until it will crisp in cold water. Flavor at the last minute and pour
into buttered dishes. Pull thoroughly as soon as it is cool enough to
handle.

                                                               C. S. C.


                             Walnut Creams.

2 cupsful of granulated sugar, 4 cupsful of milk, 4 cupsful of water, 1
teaspoonful of vanilla. Mix sugar, milk and water. Boil steadily four
minutes. Pour into a platter, not buttered, and beat with a fork. While
beating add vanilla. When cool enough to handle roll into small balls
and place between pieces of walnuts.

                                                               M. G. M.


                            Molasses Candy.

1 tablespoonful of butter, 3 cupsful of molasses, 1 teaspoonful of soda.
Melt the butter in a spider, pour in the molasses, boil until crisp,
stir in soda, pour into buttered plates, and when cool pull. If butter
is melted first the candy seldom boils over. This recipe requires very
little boiling.

                                                                  S. S.


                           Maple Cream Candy.

2 cupsful of maple sugar, 1 cupful of cream, 2 cupsful of chopped nuts.
Boil sugar with cream until it strings, stirring constantly. Just before
removing from fire stir in the nuts. Take from stove, stir until nearly
stiff, pour into buttered plate. In place of cream, one cup of milk and
a teaspoonful of butter may be used. Sometimes the milk curdles when
beginning to boil; this is no objection, as it becomes smooth when cold.

                                                                  S. S.


                            Hoarhound Candy.

2 cupsful of molasses, 1 tablespoonful of butter, 1 teaspoonful of
hoarhound, ½ cupful of water. Steep the hoarhound in the warm water, add
the tea so made to the other ingredients, and boil until crisp when
tried in water.

                                                                  S. S.


                               Nut Candy.

Put 2 cupsful of sugar in a hot spider and stir until thoroughly
dissolved. Then add 1½ cupsful of any kind of chopped nuts, walnuts
preferred, and pour into buttered pans.

                                                          Mrs. C. E. S.

[Illustration: decorative medallion]


                 *        *        *        *        *

                       FINE PERFUMES AND SACHETS,

                      {        EDEMA,         }
                      { MARECHAL NIEL, ROSE,  }
          LUNDBORG’S  {      GOYA LILY,       } Special Odors.
                      {    ALPINE VIOLET.     }

                  ROGER & GALLETT’S VIOLETTE DE PARME,
                         THE FINEST VIOLET MADE
                              FOR SALE BY
                           ROBINSON DRUG CO,
                     Cor. Fifth and Jefferson Sts.

                 *        *        *        *        *

                          NORTH HILL GROCERY.

[Illustration: Chase & Sanborn coffee label]

We receive Fresh Vegetables from our own Garden. Use the Daisy Flour,
Chase & Sanborn Coffees and Dew Drop Canned Goods, at

                            H. ZAISER & SON.

                 *        *        *        *        *

             WHEN YOU NEED ANYTHING IN THE LINE OF PASTRY,
        Fancy Cakes, Pies, Rolls. Doughnuts, Oyster Patties, &c.
                   Also FINE CANDIES, then go to the
                            S. & S. BAKERY,
                         503 Jefferson Street.
                  THE MOST RELIABLE PLACE IN THE CITY.

                 *        *        *        *        *

                              CONRAD LUTZ,

                  Printing, Binding, and Blank Books,

                        WE MAKE THE PRINTING OF
                        FINE WEDDING STATIONERY
                         AND PARTY INVITATIONS
                              A SPECIALTY.

             103 and 105 Valley St.      BURLINGTON, IOWA.

                 *        *        *        *        *




                             MISCELLANEOUS.


You can drive nails into hard wood without bending them, if you dip them
first in lard.

Kerosene oil will remove rust in iron.

Pumpkin seeds are very attractive to mice, and traps baited with them
will soon destroy them.

The fumes of a brimstone will remove berry stains from a book, paper or
engraving.

Use whiting moistened with kerosene to scour your tins.

To make chicken gravy richer, add the yolk of an egg.

Soak garden seeds in hot water a few seconds before planting.


                            Good for a Cold.

The juice of two lemons in half a tumbler of luke warm water.


                       Cora Tanner’s Cold Cream.

Shave 2 ounces of white wax and 40 grains of spermaceti into 7 ounces of
oil of almonds. Melt together over gentle fire. When quite dissolved,
add 5 ounces of best rose water, and beat till cold with egg beater.

Dr. H—— recommends for the treatment of bleeding at the nose, the
plunging of the face and hands of the patient in water, as hot as can be
borne. He says that the most rebellious cases have never resisted this
mode of treatment.

Cold drinks, as a rule, increase the feverish condition of the mouth and
stomach, and so create thirst. Experience shows it to be a fact that hot
drinks relieve thirst; and cool off the body when it is in an abnormally
heated condition, better than ice cold drinks.


                            Wash for Hands.

Glycerine and lemon juice, equal parts of each.


                     For Fresh Burns, Scalds, Etc.

Take equal parts of lime water and raw linseed oil, shake well together,
saturate an old linen cloth and apply to the burn. Be sure and keep the
cloth well saturated.


                         For Scalds and Burns.

Apply essence of peppermint to a burn or a scald; it seems to drive out
the heat and causes a cool sensation immediately.


                       Washing Woolen Underwear.

Take a pail of water warm enough to bear the hand in, add 1
tablespoonful of ammonia, quarter of a cake of good laundry soap,
stirring until the soap is dissolved. Let the clothes soak for half an
hour, rinse in two waters the same temperature as they were washed in,
add a little blueing in last rinsing, shake well before hanging on the
line.

                                                                  L. K.


                            Washing Windows.

To wash window glass, wring out of warm water a chamois skin. It will
wash off the dirt, and can again be rinsed and wrung, and used to dry
the glass. It is a much quicker way then to use cloths.

Placing a silver spoon in glasses or jars, prevents them from breaking
when hot jelly, or fruit is put into them.

                                                    Mrs. H. C. Garrett.


                     Excellent Tonic for the Hair.

1 teaspoonful of quinine, 1 tablespoonful of salt, 1 pint of whisky.


                 *        *        *        *        *

                             Telephone 253.

                              JOSEPH BOCK,
                               PROPRIETOR
                        SUNNY SIDE GREEN HOUSES
                           BURLINGTON, IOWA.

                [Illustration: primrose plant in a pot]

                 Cut Flowers and Floral Designs of all
                       Descriptions for Weddings,
                             Funerals, Etc.

                    Orders by Telegraph or Telephone
                         Promptly Attended to.

                 *        *        *        *        *

                 The “Humphery” Ladies’ Stride Saddle.

          Made after the pattern made by us for Mrs. Humphrey,
                     Iowa’s Graceful Equestrienne.

        Orders accepted now from the trade for Spring delivery.

                        S. R. & I. C. McConnell,
Manufacturers at Wholesale only Fine Riding Saddles and Driving Harness.
                           BURLINGTON, IOWA.

                 *        *        *        *        *

                 “A Thing of Beauty is a Joy Forever.”

The Souvenir Book of Burlington which will contain over Five Hundred
half-tone illustrations will be all that the quotation implies. Watch
for it.

                           To be published by

                            THE JOURNAL CO.,
                       No. 100 North Main Street.

                 *        *        *        *        *

                          _THE BOSTON STORE._

                          JAMES BENTZ & SONS,
                       No. 215 JEFFERSON STREET.

         The Largest Line of Ladies’ Pocket Books in the City.
         The Best $1.00 Kid Glove in the City; Button or Hook.

                          JAMES BENTZ & SONS.

                 *        *        *        *        *

Transcriber’s Notes:

Advertisement listed in the index for Inside Back Cover was not
available due to being covered with library stickers. Archaic spellings
have been retained. Inconsistencies in spelling, hyphenation and title
formatting have been retained. Obvious typesetting and punctuation
errors have been corrected without note. Other errors have been
corrected as noted below.

page 13, Break and heat the ==> Break and beat the
page 21, bowed and skinned, ==> boned and skinned,
page 27, hence it’s name ==> hence its name
page 63, when its boiling, ==> when it’s boiling,





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Flint Hills Cook Book, by 
Women of Christ Church Parish

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FLINT HILLS COOK BOOK ***

***** This file should be named 58948-0.txt or 58948-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/8/9/4/58948/

Produced by Mardi Desjardins & the online Distributed
Proofreaders Canada team at https://www.pgdpcanada.net
from page images generously made available by Iowa State
University Library Digital Collections

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

